Hear from Duluth municipal election winners - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Hear from Duluth municipal election winners By WDIO --> Hear from Duluth municipal election winners Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team After Tuesday's municipal election, new faces will be joining the Duluth City Council and City Council At-Large in January. Diane Desotelle and David Clanaugh are the Councilor Elects for Districts 2 and 4. Jordan Johnson and Incumbent Terese Tomanek won the race for City Council At-Large. WDIO got the chance to sit down with the four winners, where they shared how they plan to use their previous backgrounds to work on specific community issues. As a new councilor, Diane Desotelle said she plans to get up to speed by listening to constituents. "You know as a new counselor, the first thing is really important is for me to just listen and learn and get up to speed, but I'm coming in, I would like to say skipping, maybe not sprinting, but I'm not walking because I know the process well and all that. I can help deliver on making sure that we are working on a process where we make sure we're hearing from our constituents in the community as we work through making decisions before just jumping too quick into making a decision without thinking it through with the right folks in the room," said Desotelle. David Clanaugh is coming into the council with a focus on good communication. "They understand that, you know, we have a lot of challenges, a lot of needs, especially in the area of infrastructure, and they don't expect miracles, but when projects are going on and say there are delays or there's a really serious pothole that is an absolute hazard, that these things are addressed, that when people reach out asking for help, that they get responses, that they don't make repeated calls or feel like they're being not listened to, even deflected," said Clanaugh. City Council At-Large Electee, Jordan Johnson, laid out his early priority for community safety. "Transportation is a safety issue, so what is the future of bike lanes or of walkability, adequate lighting in our communities? Our young people should never have to feel concerned about going to school or parents sending their kids to school and given the rates of gun violence that seem to be increasing&#8230;and so those are some of the aspects that I can really kind of tackle and get into," said Johnson. Meanwhile, Incumbent Terese Tomanek is focusing on the city budget. "We had an eight-hour budget meeting on Friday&#8230; and I had voted to increase the max levy one percent just in case we needed room to add things, but we were actually able to keep it to the mayor's original 2.7 percent tax levy, the effective tax levy. There haven't been any very serious changes. We're covering parks, we're covering libraries, we're funding the crisis response team, and providing our core services. It's a really good budget," said Tomanek. To hear more from the newly elected councilors and their goals for Duluth, their full interviews are down below. Diane Desotelle Diane Desotelle, Duluth City Council Dist. 2 Diane Desotelle Interview, Duluth City Council Dist. 4 David Clanaugh David Clanaugh, Duluth City Council Dist. 4 Interview - David Clanaugh, Duluth City Council Dist. 4 Jordan Johnson Jordan Johnson, Duluth City Council At-Large Jordan Johnson Interview, Duluth City Council At-Large Terese Tomanek Terese Tomanek, Duluth City Council At-Large Interview: Terese Tomanek, Duluth City Council At-Large Electees will officially take their roles on the first Duluth City Council meeting of 2026. For Related Stories: Election 2025 Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed