Duluth City Council waits on Lester Park issue - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council waits on Lester Park issue By WDIO --> City Council could hear about Lester Park ballot legality soon Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Lester Park Golf Course was on multiple agenda items in Monday night's Duluth City Council meeting, but none were discussed as the city awaits a judge's decision. Duluth could hear as early as Tuesday whether they can legally put the decision about whether to develop the park on the ballot, after petitions from organization "Our Park, Our Vote." The council said Tuesday is also the deadline for getting issues on the ballot. "There really is no further action that this body has to take," said City Attorney Terri Lehr. "However, if the court makes a decision that is contrary to what the city's position would be, we will certainly think that through and notify you immediately." Before the brief park discussion wrapped up, City Council Member David Clanaugh thanked Lehr for assuring the council legislative immunity protected them if there votes regarding the ballot were contrary to Minnesota state laws in this instance. He also acknowledged past tension. "I just want to try to clear the air on this, and let's move forward in a more productive, charitable spirit," he said to the council. "We know we're going to be dealing with challenging things that we may have very deep disagreements about, but let's do it in a good spirit with the benefit of the doubt." As for public commenters, five were there to condemn the city's use of flock cameras, and one addressed Lester park. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Lester Park --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed