2019 20 Under 40: Helen Clanaugh - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News 2019 20 Under 40: Helen Clanaugh This place will always be home, but I want to keep learning and growing somewhere new! Helen Clanaugh of Duluth is a 2019 Duluth News Tribune 20 Under 40 winner. (Clint Austin / caustin@duluthnews.com) September 26, 2019 at 12:00 AM Listen Share Share this article Helen Clanaugh, 17, Duluth What do you do? (job, community involvement) Student, Minnesota Young DFL vice president, Students Demand Action MN social media lead, Take Action MN Duluth core team leader, MN Youth Council Congressional District 8 rep, Mike Mayou For Duluth City Council voter contact director, Liz Olson for State Rep campaign manager, and doing whatever I can to make my community a better place! ADVERTISEMENT How do you spend your free time? I like to hike, canoe, play guitar, knit, brew my kombucha, play with my dog and go to more campaign meetings. Tell us about an influential person in your life. There's a few that come to mind, but I think I'm going to go with Erin Murphy on this one. Erin ran for governor in 2018, and it was then when I realized how powerful politics can be in shaping people's lives if you make it about a purpose bigger than one election, one candidate or one issue. Since the campaign, I've gotten to know Erin and see how compassionate, courageous and passionate she is. She truly puts everything she has into helping other people. Whether that be for someone else's campaign, an issue that she cares about, or running for governor. Erin is a leader at its core and I am so grateful that I get to witness and be a part of the movement she is leading and helping to build. Erin always says, "The politics with purpose is the politics of joy." What keeps you in the Twin Ports? Well mostly my parents. I've lived in Duluth for most of my life and have had the privilege to grow up here. I've found a sense of community, a deep love for the lake, and somewhere that I can always come back to. That being said, I do plan to leave the Twin Ports for college and find new experiences in a different community. This place will always be home, but I want to keep learning and growing somewhere new! Don't get me wrong, though I have so much pride and joy for my city. What words of wisdom do you live by? ADVERTISEMENT I have two quotes that I strive to live by. One is a more common one, and that is "When they go low, we go high," said by Michelle Obama. I love this quote, because with all the organizing and advocacy I do, I always try to remain positive and optimistic even when the days seem dark. The other quote is by Wilma Mankiller, who was the first woman chief of the Cherokee Nation. It is, "The most fulfilled people are those who get up every morning and stand for something larger than themselves." Share Share this article Listen to this article What To Read Next News Why supporting local journalism matters to your community Sep 25 &#183; By Kris Hauge ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 2h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.