David Clanaugh wins Duluth City Council District 4 race - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture David Clanaugh wins Duluth City Council District 4 race By WDIO --> The votes are in for Duluth City Council's District 4 seat. Voters have selected challenger David Clanaugh, based on preliminary votes. WDIO spoke with the winner prior to the election, and they shared their vision for District 4. DAVID CLANAUGH David Clanaugh said he will look at various socio-economic statues and their different needs when it comes to affordable housing. "I am consistently hearing from middle income people, especially those on fixed incomes, that property taxes are a real challenge. I'm hearing from businesses that they can't retain employees because the employees can't afford housing. I'm hearing from renters that they are priced out of the market. At the lowest end of the socioeconomic spectrum, we see this in the increasing degree of homelessness," says Clanaugh. Clanaugh also hopes to tackle homelessness in the community. "When I worked at Damiano, I can't begin to tell you how many people came to the soup kitchen there who had jobs, right? And maybe were struggling to have meals and maybe were living in marginal ways, in their cars or whatever, and this has been on the increase, so it's not genetic. People aren't homeless because of some genetic thing. It's environmental, it's a social, it's an economic issue, and it's society wide." RELATED: WDIO full election results For Related Stories: Election 2025 Duluth Duluth City Council Northern Minnesota --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed