Swenson, Clanaugh square off in 4th District Duluth City Council race - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Swenson, Clanaugh square off in 4th District Duluth City Council race The candidates shared views on the future of Duluth's downtown, its housing needs and unmet child care challenges. Tara Swenson, left, and David Clanaugh participate in a candidate forum at The Garden in Canal Park on Monday. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi September 15, 2025 at 6:14 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Incumbent 4th District city councilor Tara Swenson and her challenger, David Clanaugh, went head-to-head Monday morning, explaining why each thinks they deserve to represent their neighborhood constituents come Nov. 4. Both spoke to the need to contain costs, as property taxes place an increasing burden on residents, during a candidate forum hosted by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. ADVERTISEMENT City budget and taxes Swenson said property tax concerns have been a recurring theme she hears about as she door-knocks in the district. She noted that the city was able to avoid property tax rate increases last year and now is contemplating a 2.7% increase, on top of a property base that has appreciated by about 1.4% in value. Tara Swenson. Contributed / Tara Swenson David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh “This is looking internally at operations," Swenson said. "That’s what we need to do. I’m a health care professional and run a clinic here in Duluth. And it’s a business. The city needs to operate as a business. So, we need to focus on the core issues of the city. “That’s our streets and infrastructure. That’s our public safety — police and fire — our parks and our libraries,” she said. Clanaugh said he, too, worries about people being priced out of their homes, especially in light of stagnant state funding in the form of local government aid. “I think that we really need to drill in with our staff. They know the work of our city government the best,” he said. “In a way, we can realize an opportunity here to become more effective in delivering public services.” ALSO READ Duluth City Council at large candidates talk taxes, spending, Right to Repair Sep 15, 2025 Mayor Roger Reinert has proposed to leave 12 of 55 currently unoccupied city positions open in order to rein in costs. News Tribune Editorial Page Editor Chuck Frederick asked the candidates if they would support cuts that could affect the public library system. “The library is a core for the democratic process,” Clanaugh said. “It’s a place for the community to gather, where information is available, where we have access to history and information in order to make increasingly positive decisions. So, we really need to support our libraries.” ADVERTISEMENT However, Clanaugh acknowledged the city must always seek to become more efficient in its operations. Swenson said she views the library as “an essential service,” and said it provides a font of valuable information for residents. That being said, she also called for further efforts to garner financial support from neighboring communities whose residents also regularly make use of Duluth’s public library system. Both candidates suggested the city needs to prioritize its spending. “Duluth has $573 million in deferred maintenance. This is going to take a lot of work and a lot of time. We seriously need to think about what is our role as a city council to take on some of those issues. So, when we take staff time, we are addressing the core issues of our constituents,” Swenson said. “People don’t expect miracles in terms of infrastructure. They’re pretty realistic,” Clanaugh said, noting that no one reasonably anticipates every pothole in town to be fixed overnight. “What they really want is clear communication and prioritization,” he said. “They want to know what the long-term plan is.” ADVERTISEMENT Right to Repair Clanaugh noted that 40% of the city’s residents are renters and suggested a “Right to Repair” referendum on the ballot in November is worthy of public support and applauded supporters for bringing the issue forward. MORE ABOUT THE COUNCIL Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% 6d ago Duluth OKs tax subsidies for housing project near LSC Sep 17 Duluth bars new vacation rentals from single-family homes Sep 14 Reinert proposes levy increase Sep 11 Swenson did not share Clanaugh’s enthusiasm for the measure, suggesting that it was likely a step toward an effort to enact rent-control measures that have proven detrimental to other communities seeking to increase their supply of affordable housing. Clanaugh said he considers it problematic to assign additional motives to supporters on the issue. Swenson said she wants to do more to support child care facilities since they help more workers enter the workforce, and noted the opportunity to help them through programs she has helped advance. Clanaugh suggested the city’s efforts to support nonprofit organizations such as the Damiano Center and the Union Gospel Mission should be viewed as investments. “We’re investing that money in human beings with the potential to do something different with their lives and to be full members of our community,” he said. About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS ELECTION 2025 By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 2h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.