Duluth OKs tax subsidies for housing project near LSC - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth OKs tax subsidies for housing project near LSC The tax-increment financing district requires 20% of the building, or 30 units, to be affordable and made available for people making 50% or less of the area's median income. Titanium Partners is planning to build a 148-unit apartment building near Lake Superior College. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group By Jimmy Lovrien September 17, 2026 at 5:33 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — A long-delayed housing project next to Lake Superior College appears to be moving forward again after the Duluth City Council approved subsidies for the proposed 148-unit apartment building. The council on Monday voted 8-1 to create a tax-increment financing, or TIF, district for The Legacy, a housing project proposed by Titanium Partners on Trinity Road adjacent to LSC. ADVERTISEMENT Jimmy Lovrien / Duluth Media Group TIF is a subsidy that uses new taxes generated by a project to cover certain allowable development costs. Creation of this district means local governments will forgo nearly $6 million in future tax revenues over 26 years. The money will instead go toward paying down the project's debt, Jill Keppers, executive director of the Duluth Housing and Redevelopment Authority, told councilors last week. The location of a new 148-unit apartment building that Titanium Partners will construct near Lake Superior College. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group "Without the TIF, the project can't support the debt service that it will take to build the units," Keppers said. In Duluth, the HRA handles housing TIFs. With TIFs, taxing jurisdictions continue to pocket whatever property taxes the unimproved property would have generated, but additional tax revenues are captured and returned to the developer for a defined number of years. When the TIF agreement expires, all future tax collections flow into local government coffers. In this case, 90% of returned funds will go toward paying down the project's debt, and the HRA will get the remaining 10% as an administrative fee, Keppers said. Keppers said the TIF district requires 20% of the building, or 30 units, to be affordable and made available for people making 50% or less of the area's median income. In the Twin Ports, that amounts to $50,550 for a family of four, or $35,400 for a single person, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Titanium Partners plans to build a 148-unit apartment building on Trinity Road. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group "It will help with affordable housing in our community, as well as all the student housing that we know is a great need," Keppers said. ADVERTISEMENT The five-story building, expected to cost $34 million, will be built and owned by Titanium Partners. Last week, Titanium CEO Brian Forcier said the project was ready to break ground in April 2020, but the pandemic derailed it. Two years later, skyrocketing construction costs and interest rates "made the project not feasible to construct." This time, Forcier is partnering with Twin Ports developer Pete Pavlovich, adding affordable units and using the TIF subsidies. According to Forcier, financing was dependent on TIF approval, but once that was complete, construction could begin at the end of September. Read more Duluth student housing project delayed again Soaring lumber prices, material shortages challenge Duluth builders Duluth student housing development slowed by pandemic again Forcier and his three sons attended LSC, and he said the project's name "The Legacy" was chosen "so that students up there could form their own legacies." David Kline, vice president of advancement and external relations at LSC, said the school supports the project. With about 15% of students hailing from the Twin Cities area, Kline said parents often cite housing as a challenge. "It would be fantastic if (students) could just walk across the parking lot," Kline said, adding that it could also help attract and retain employees. ADVERTISEMENT Councilor Janet Kennedy, who represents the 5th District, said she sees the value in the location, having attended LSC when it was still Duluth Technical College. "As a young mom going to school and having to actually get up to the school using a bus, it would have been really nice for me to maybe have a place to stay," Kennedy said, "looking at the legacy that we can build and how the public-private partnerships are important for housing." Local ALSO READ: Duluth HRA seeks aid to build affordable homes in Morgan Park The project could bring a dozen owner-occupied dwellings to western Duluth. Mar 15 &#183; By Peter Passi By state statute, TIF assistance is provided only when a project that benefits the surrounding community would not otherwise be financially feasible. This is often referred to as the “but-for test.” Councilor Wendy Durrwachter, who represents the 1st District, was the lone vote against the resolution. She said that while it was "a project that I would like to see built," additional documentation she requested from the HRA on Thursday was only provided to the council, not the public, on Friday. “The public does not have all of the information in front of them,” Durrwachter said. A zoning notice sign is located next to the site of a five-story apartment building Titanium Partners is planning to build near Lake Superior College. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group Durrwachter and 4th District Councilor David Clanaugh, who ultimately voted for the project, unsuccessfully tried to table the resolution until Sept. 28 to give the council and public more time to review the documents. ADVERTISEMENT The vote to table failed 7-2. "I see this as a good move for the community," Clanaugh said of the housing project. "My concern is for the future and how we go about executing these TIF agreements and maximizing public oversight and input." This article was originally published 5:33 a.m. Sept. 17. It was updated at 9:33 a.m. Sept. 18 to correctly identify the district that Councilor Janet Kennedy represents. The News Tribune regrets the error. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags LAKE SUPERIOR COLLEGE HIGHER EDUCATION HOUSING CONSTRUCTION DULUTH CITY COUNCIL By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 2h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.