First Witness looking ahead to the future with relocation and expansion - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture First Witness looking ahead to the future with relocation and expansion By WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5159756&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] First Witness Child Advocacy Center is outgrowing their home off Lake Avenue. And they have found a new one. It's down on the 1400 block of E 2nd street. Chosen because of its location, access to a busline, and neighborhood feel, the buildings will undergo a renovation. The Restoring Hope capital campaign has been successful already, bringing in nearly $1 million dollars. "The buildings that we bought are in overall, really good shape. But the transformation from what the buildings were to a child advocacy center and a national training center, that's what our campaign is about," Tracie Clanaugh explained. She's the executive director. They've expanded the programming provided to families as they heal, and that requires more space. Plus they are trying to stop abuse before it starts, by teaching kids about body autonomy and adults about stepping in to help stop abuse. A bill to provide $1.5 million dollars in funding for the project has been introduced in the legislature. Rep. Alicia Kozlowski told us she's really proud to be the lead author in the Minnesota House. "This project is so important for our community as well as for our state. It's going to be able to give them an updated facility to make sure more families and more kids can be served," Kozlowski said. Senator Jen McEwen is the author on the senate side. Clanaugh said that their current building was built by the Junior League of Duluth, and gifted to First Witness. Now the Junior League is helping with the new project as well. (WDIO) For Related Stories: First Witness Minnesota Legislature --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed