HeArt of Healing: Art exhibit aims to inspire hope and support First Witness - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture HeArt of Healing: Art exhibit aims to inspire hope and support First Witness Sierra Naess WDIO --> HeArt of Healing: Art exhibit aims to inspire hope and support First Witness Art, healing, and community will come together this weekend as The HeART of Healing Art Exhibit raises awareness and support for First Witness Child Advocacy Center. Art, healing, and community will come together this weekend as The HeART of Healing Art Exhibit raises awareness and support for First Witness Child Advocacy Center . The free event will showcase artwork from local artists, along with personal stories that explore resilience, healing, and hope. Tracie Clanaugh, Executive Director of First Witness, says the organization works to strengthen the community's response to child abuse and support children and families on their healing journey. "Our mission is to strengthen our community's response to child abuse," Clanaugh said. "Our vision is of a society that supports children and puts an end to child abuse." The exhibit's theme, The HeART of Healing , was inspired by the emotional connection people experience through art. "Art evokes emotion for the person who creates art and also views art," said artist and exhibit committee member Patty Salo Downs. "We wanted the community to have an emotional experience through the art that's displayed, including the powerful narratives." Artwork on display will be available for purchase, with proceeds supporting First Witness and its mission. Organizers say visitors can expect a meaningful experience that highlights both the impact of trauma and the power of healing. "We know that when a person experiences trauma in their life, particularly children, there can be a fight or flight experience," Clanaugh said. "Art and the healing effect of art can help settle those emotions to an extent where healing can begin." The exhibit will also feature a performance by Sarah Lawrence and is free for the public to attend from Friday, September 25, through Sunday, September 27. For Related Stories: Art Community Events First Witness --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed