Clanaugh upsets incumbent in Duluth's 4th District council race - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Clanaugh upsets incumbent in Duluth's 4th District council race The DFL endorsee denied Tara Swenson a second term. Duluth City Council District 4 candidate David Clanaugh celebrates with supporters after hearing unofficial results during a DFL election night party at Lyric Kitchen. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi November 04, 2025 at 10:55 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — David Clanaugh, a 64-year-old mental health counselor, appears to have unseated Duluth’s 4th District City Councilor Tara Swenson, who was seeking a second term. Although Tuesday's results remain unofficial, Clanaugh held a lead over Swenson of 2,031 to 1,737, capturing nearly 54% of the vote. ADVERTISEMENT Duluth’s 4th District includes Piedmont Heights, Duluth Heights, Lincoln Park, Observation Hill and a piece of West Duluth. Clanaugh thanked his campaign team and said he had personally visited with more than 1,000 district residents. He referred to his victory as “a people-oriented win” and “an incredible honor,” second only to the joy of raising three children with his wife. David Clanaugh, right, receives a hug from Patrick Jones, of Duluth, during a DFL election night party at Lyric Kitchen on Tuesday. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group Besides his success at the ballot box, Clanaugh also pointed to the community’s resounding passage of a right-to-repair referendum. He credited the measure for bringing more voters to the polls Tuesday and inspiring them to imagine positive change. “This is a diverse district with very distinct neighborhoods, and I think that gets used sometimes to pit people against each other, when the bottom line is that we have more things in common than our differences,” he said. David Clanaugh laughs while waiting for results. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group As a former executive director of Habitat for Humanity, Clanaugh said one of his top priorities will be to boost the city’s supply of affordable housing, and he suggested the community consider alternative building techniques and ways to remove barriers for the construction of low- to mid-cost hosting. Swenson ran on a promise to hold property taxes in check and work to promote economic development, with an eye toward bringing more housing to the community. She has also focused on efforts to expand the city’s child care base. Tara Swenson. Contributed / Tara Swenson While Swenson did not receive the local DFL party endorsement, she was endorsed by the Duluth Building Trades. ADVERTISEMENT A resident of Piedmont, Swenson, 36, lives with her husband and two children, ages 8 and 5. Clanaugh credited Swenson for running a clean and civil campaign. David Clanaugh poses near campaign signs, including his own. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS ELECTION 2025 By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 2h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.