It takes a Village to Raise and Protect a Child - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture It takes a Village to Raise and Protect a Child Shalon Monroe --> [anvplayer video="5098853&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Any form of abuse to anyone goes beyond danger and can cause mental and physical injuries. "What we want people to remember is, if you have a concern for the safety of a child, then they should report that, said the First Witness Child Advocacy Center Executive Director, Tracie Clanaugh. When there is the possibility of child abuse, approaching the situation with caution is the first step. "If you have a concern, and you want to talk through that, I would also encourage people to call their social service agency and discuss that concern and allow them to talk through that with you in terms of what might be a real concern and what might not be," says Clanuagh. If you feel your concern is not addressed, there is another option. You can talk to social services, and if that doesn't work, advocates say you can speak to a supervisor. It could be hard to have that difficult conversation where there is a connection between a child with members in the community, at school, or a coach-team player bond. Taking that step and reporting a possible case of child abuse does not have to feel like a one-person job. "We do not have to do this on your own. If you have concerns for the safety of a child, it's important to reach out," said Clanuagh. It takes a village to raise a child&#8230;it also takes that same village to protect a child. "Kids need positive adults in their lives, says Clanuagh. We cannot underscore the need for positive, caring adults in kids' lives." To learn more about child abuse, First Witness Child Advocacy Center has a lot of information about protecting children, families, etc. Diocese of Duluth and St. Louis County Minnesota Public Health and Human Services websites provide more information about child abuse and links to report a child abuse report. Reporting a possible case of child abuse doesn't have to feel like a one-person job. [WDIO, File] --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed