Meet the candidates running for Duluth City Council District 4 - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Meet the candidates running for Duluth City Council District 4 By WDIO --> Meet the candidates for Duluth City Council Distict 4 David Clanaugh is running against incumbant Tara Swenson for the Duluth City Council District 4 seat. With the November 4th election right around the corner, WDIO got the chance to speak to Duluth City Council District 4 candidates where they shared their plans for tackling issues in the community and why voters should choose them. David Clanaugh is challenging Tara Swenson for the District 4 seat. Incumbent Swenson says being on the council for the last two years has given her the opportunity to learn more about the city. "Coming in as an incumbent, I would say that has helped me feel more qualified and more prepared for what I'm walking into, so being on council for the past two years, I've had the opportunity to learn a lot about the city, the budget and how we spend or organize different things within the city," Swenson says. One of her main priorities is to take a deeper look into affordable rates for first-time homebuyers. "When we look at housing, we need to have housing for people to live, so not only is that our seniors that are hoping to age in place and move on to the next place that's also affordable, and how do we make sure that first time home buyers also have a home that they can buy that's at an affordable rate? Because that's what I often hear on the doors is they're a renter and they really want to buy a home, but they just can't find one within their budget." Swenson is also focusing on taxes and budgets to help bring in new businesses to Duluth. "The things that I hear so routinely out in the community is how do we get more business and industry here to offset some of the budget concerns that we have. If we can bring in a new business into Duluth and a new industry, then that limits the tax burden across all constituents." David Clanaugh is taking a different approach, looking at various socio-economic statues and their different needs when it comes to affordable housing. "I am consistently hearing from middle income people, especially those on fixed incomes, that property taxes are a real challenge. I'm hearing from businesses that they can't retain employees because the employees can't afford housing. I'm hearing from renters that they are priced out of the market. At the lowest end of the socioeconomic spectrum, we see this in the increasing degree of homelessness," says Clanaugh. Clanaugh also hopes to tackle homelessness in the community. "When I worked at Damiano, I can't begin to tell you how many people came to the soup kitchen there who had jobs, right? And maybe were struggling to have meals and maybe were living in marginal ways, in their cars or whatever, and this has been on the increase, so it's not genetic. People aren't homeless because of some genetic thing. It's environmental, it's a social, it's an economic issue, and it's society wide." To learn more about the candidates and their qualifications, plans, and goals for Duluth, their full interviews are down below. TARA SWENSON Interview: Tara Swenson, Duluth City Council Dist. 4 candidate Full interview with Tara Swenson running for Duluth City Council Dist. 4 DAVID CLANAUGH Interview: David Clanaugh, Duluth City Council Dist. 4 candidate Full interview with candidate David Clanaugh for Duluth City Council Dist. 4 District 4 covers Duluth Heights, Piedmont Heights, and Lincoln Park neighborhoods. The general election is Tuesday, November 4th. For Related Stories: Election 2025 Duluth Duluth City Council Minnesota Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed