Duluth council considers how best to protect tenant rights - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth council considers how best to protect tenant rights Some councilors fear a proposed right-to-repair rule likely headed to a November referendum vote could have unintended consequences. Duluth City Hall Clint Austin / 2017 file / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi June 26, 2025 at 9:49 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — City councilors convened a special meeting Thursday night to weigh two competing proposals, both aimed at addressing the concerns of renters who sometimes struggle to see basic repairs completed in a timely fashion. A grassroots campaign mounted by a newly formed group called Duluth Tenants has collected nearly 6,000 signatures on a petition in favor of a “right-to-repair” measure. That is more than enough support to trigger a citywide referendum vote on the policy. ADVERTISEMENT But three city councilors — Roz Randorf, Lynn Marie Nephew and Terese Tomanek — have put forward an alternative ordinance that they hope can satisfy renters’ concerns, negating the need for the proposed right-to-repair ordinance. The council will choose its course Tuesday at another special meeting, where the two proposals are expected to go to a vote. The right-to-repair proposal would empower tenants to proceed with basic repairs if their landlord fails to respond within 14 days to a request for maintenance. Renters could then proceed with the hiring of a qualified contractor to make a needed repair of up to $500 or half of their monthly rent, whichever is greater. This expense would then be reimbursed or deducted from the rent payment. An alternative ordinance proposed by three councilors also would require landlords to respond to repair requests within 14 days, but would place city building safety staff in the middle of the exchange, using fines and citations to penalize unresponsive landlords and possibly even cancel the licenses of the worst offenders. Randorf warned of “significant legal issues” with the right-to-repair proposal being pushed by Duluth Tenants. She said the proposed measure “puts tenants in the legal crosshairs.” Randorf suggested the well-intentioned ordinance could subject tenants to legal liabilities for repairs that don’t go well. “That’s not protection. That’s exposure,” she said. But 1st District Councilor Wendy Durrwachter challenged Randorf’s “scare tactic” characterization of the legal jeopardy to which the proposed right-to-repair ordinance would expose tenants. ADVERTISEMENT She noted that state law already explicitly forbids landlords from retaliating against renters who bring forward legitimate demands for repairs, especially ones that are relatively modest in scale and preventive in nature. Durrwachter pointed out that neglected repairs often result in more extensive and expensive work down the line. “I just want to argue that the petition for rental repairs is simple. It won’t cost taxpayer dollars,” Durrwachter said, noting that the city’s building safety department already is stretched with staff demands. The Duluth Tenants group prepares to begin a rally in support of renters' rights on the steps of City Hall on Oct. 30. Peter Passi / File / Duluth Media Group DyAnna Grondahl, Duluth Tenants’ lead organizer, issued a statement Thursday night saying: “All of us deserve safe, dignified homes. But, right now, too many Duluth renters are living with broken stoves, leaky ceilings and windows that won’t shut, because the systems in place are not working.” She said the proposed right-to-repair ordinance “is about acting early, not waiting for a crisis.” “It’s the kind of practical common-sense solution Duluthians deserve,” Grondahl said. “Next week the council will have a choice: Either support the nearly 6,000 Duluthians who have already made it clear we need a tool that really works. Or continue to propose a weaker alternative that relies on the same inspection systems that renters already know are overwhelmed and can take months to reach their homes.” So far, city administration has not taken a formal position regarding the two proposed approaches to dealing with renters’ maintenance concerns. But City Administrator Matt Staehling said he expects staff to offer some recommendations prior to Tuesday’s vote. If the council approves the right-to-repair proposal brought forward by Duluth Tenants, a citywide referendum vote would not be necessary. If the council approves the alternative ordinance, the two options could both appear on the November ballot. ADVERTISEMENT Tomanek noted that if the council approves the ordinance she and her co-sponsors have proposed and at least half of the people who signed the petition for the right-to-repair ordinance withdraw their signatures within 10 days of the council action, no public vote on the issue would be required. About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH HOUSING By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.