Duluth voters to decide if tenants should have right to repair homes - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth voters to decide if tenants should have right to repair homes A measure that would empower renters to tackle unresolved minor maintenance problems continues to spark debate. The Duluth Tenants group prepares to begin a rally in support of renters' rights on the steps of City Hall on Oct. 30, 2024. Peter Passi / File / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi September 16, 2025 at 6:07 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Tenant rights will be on the ballot in November. While both supporters and detractors of a proposed “Right to Repair” ordinance purport to have renters’ best interests at heart, they remain sharply divided over a referendum that could shift the power dynamics between local tenants and landlords. ADVERTISEMENT At a Tuesday public forum hosted by the Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce and the News Tribune, a pair of speakers shared starkly contrasting views. DyAnna Grondahl, an organizer for the grassroots organization Duluth Tenants, called for residents to unite behind a policy that she says could help renters more successfully address needed basic repairs in a timely fashion. But 3rd District City Councilor Roz Randorf warned the well-intentioned ordinance actually could put tenants at greater risk. “We all agree that all our tenants in Duluth deserve safe and dignified housing,” Randorf said. MORE FROM THE DNT FORUMS Duluth City Council at large candidates talk taxes, spending, Right to Repair Sep 15, 2025 Swenson, Clanaugh square off in 4th District Duluth City Council race Sep 15, 2025 Desotelle flies solo when her council opponent fails to show at forum Sep 15, 2025 However, Randorf said she favors city policies that hold landlords to account and do not place renters in the crosshairs of potential disputes. Grondahl argued the proposed “Right to Repair” ordinance simply provides tenants with a common-sense, useful tool to obtain needed fixes to often-neglected problems that deserve to be addressed sooner rather than later. “I am here because no one should need to go to court or wait for an inspector just to get a basic repair done. Yet, that’s what renters in Duluth are facing right now,” said Grondahl, who recalled how she anxiously struggled to get a new functioning lock installed in her apartment for several weeks. Duluth City Councilor Roz Randorf, left, and DyAnna Grondahl with TakeAction MN participate in a forum addressing the "Right to Repair" ballot question. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group “I’ve heard from neighbors who have bats in their ceilings. I know a family trying to raise a baby with rats scurrying across their floor. I know an elder who slipped on a broken step, broke her hip and had to ask her grandchild to call for help,” she said. ADVERTISEMENT Randorf contends helpful resources are already available, though often neglected. She noted that many tenants are unaware of the rights they already are afforded as Minnesotans, under existing state law. Those rights include the ability to withhold payments, depositing rent checks into an escrow account until a landlord makes legitimate, needed repairs to a rental property. Randorf explained that this is why city councilors initially have focused on improved tenant education. Grondahl referred to Duluth’s proposed “Right to Repair” ordinance as “Home Maintenance 101.” “Fix the problems while they are small, before they put students, seniors and young professionals, families and others at risk,” she said. Grondahl noted that more than 30 states and cities currently have "Right to Repair" policies on their books, and they have worked to help tenants obtain timely attention to health and safety problems. During the Tuesday forum, 3rd District City Councilor Roz Randorf, left, and Duluth Tenants organizer DyAnna Grondahl trade views on a proposed "Right to Repair" policy. Peter Passi / Duluth Media Group However, Randorf pointed to cases where tenants have run afoul of their landlords, too, occasionally placing themselves in legal peril of being forced to pay damages or even confronting the threat of eviction in the case of problematic repairs. “That’s not protection. That’s a trap,” Randorf said. Grondahl suggested the city’s alternative proposal does not push landlords to swiftly address needed repairs. While the city requires an action plan to be revealed within 14 days of notification, she noted the clock does not begin ticking until a city inspector has been sent to the premises. In effect, Grondahl warned the city’s policy could drag out repairs for longer periods than what Duluth Tenants proposes, especially given the current work backlogs among city staff. ADVERTISEMENT Under the proposed ordinance, renters could request a needed repair and if they did not receive a response within 14 days, they could proceed with that repair costing no more than $500 or up to half a month’s rent. This sum could be paid out of pocket and then deducted from the next rent payment. Randorf noted that an ordinance passed by city-wide referendum gives the city very little flexibility to tweak the policy, if problems emerge, short of taking the policy to another community vote. READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 2h ago St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago “It is the power of the people at this point,” Randorf said. Grondahl agreed that the policy would be governed by popular vote, suggesting that it seemed pretty democratic. Duluth Tenants collected nearly 6,000 signatures on a petition in favor of bringing a “Right to Repair” ordinance to a city-wide referendum. Only about 3,700 of those signatures were subsequently verified as belonging to local registered voters. But that still exceeded the required threshold of support by well over 1,000 signatures. Grondahl said the issue resonated with residents. News Tribune Editorial Page Editor Chuck Frederick asked if the proposed ordinance was a precursor to a likely subsequent campaign for Duluth to enact rent controls, as recently adopted in St. Paul. ADVERTISEMENT Grondahl pushed back: “This is not rent control. And I’m here today to talk about the 'Right to Repair' policy, which is a common-sense tool to support renters getting the repairs they need in their homes.” more by peter passi Local Don Ness sees nonprofit leadership role as 'dream job' At 52, the former Duluth mayor says he's satisfied to serve his community in a different way. May 20 &#183; By Peter Passi Local Court upholds ruling against Spirit Mountain in coaster injury lawsuit May 4 &#183; By Peter Passi Local St. Louis County replants forest in fire’s wake May 2 &#183; By Peter Passi Subscribers Only Local Opponents again sue Hermantown over proposed data center Apr 29 &#183; By Peter Passi Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL HOUSING GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS ELECTION 2025 By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.