First Witness: Caring for victims of child abuse - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture First Witness: Caring for victims of child abuse Darren Danielson WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5174491&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Nobody likes to think about worse case scenarios when it comes to child abuse cases. But that is what the First Witness child advocacy center in Duluth deals with year after year. Community members, staff and supporters of the center gathered in support of their important work Thursday night at their 2023 spring splash event. Executive director, Tracie Clanaugh described why First Witness is able to do the challenging, but rewarding work that they do. "First witness can only do the amazing work we do because we have a community that supports us. And this is what that's what this is about tonight, is our community having the opportunity to support children, to work towards ending child abuse, to have a place where children can be and feel safe and thrive in their community." Clanaugh said in addition to the fundraising element, tonight's event is really important to the staff at First Witness who get to hear directly from the community on how the hard work they do is so appreciated. WDIO is proud to be one of the corporate sponsors of tonight's special event. A night set aside to support the First Witness child advocacy center in Duluth. For Related Stories: Child Abuse Duluth First Witness --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed