Three new faces to begin Duluth City Council terms - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Three new faces to begin Duluth City Council terms By WDIO --> The makeup of the Duluth City Council is set to undergo a big change, when three newly elected councilors are sworn in on January 5. Newcomers include at-large councilor Jordon Johnson, Diane Desotelle of the second district, and fourth district councilor David Clanaugh. They'll join at-large councilor Terese Tomanek, who won another term in November. Their swearing-in ceremony will take place at the city hall on January 5 at noon, and is open to the public. Outgoing members of the council include Azrin Awal, who declined to run for another term, Tara Swenson, who lost her reelection bid to Clanaugh, and Deb DeLuca, who was appointed to the council following the resignation of Mike Mayou in the summer of 2025. Councilors will begin the year first with an agenda meeting on Thursday, January 8, before their first proper council meeting on Monday, January 12. More information about the Duluth City Council, including agendas, replays of meetings, and meeting schedules can be found on the city's website. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed