Second Regular Session of the 122nd General Assembly (2022) PRINTING CODE. Amendments: Whenever an existing statute (or a section of the Indiana Constitution) is being amended, the text of the existing provision will appear in this style type, additions will appear in this style type , and deletions will appear in [deleted: this style type.] Additions: Whenever a new statutory provision is being enacted (or a new constitutional provision adopted), the text of the new provision will appear in this style type . Also, the word NEW will appear in that style type in the introductory clause of each SECTION that adds a new provision to the Indiana Code or the Indiana Constitution. Conflict reconciliation: Text in a statute in this style type or [deleted: this style type] reconciles conflicts between statutes enacted by the 2021 Regular Session of the General Assembly. HOUSE ENROLLED ACT No. 1041 AN ACT to amend the Indiana Code concerning education. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana: SECTION 1. IC 20-26-14-10 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2022]: Sec. 10. An association is subject to IC 20-33-13. SECTION 2. IC 20-33-13 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE AS A NEW CHAPTER TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2022]: Chapter 13. Athletic Teams and Sports Sec. 1. This chapter applies to the following: (1) An athletic team or sport that is organized, sanctioned, or sponsored by a school corporation or public school in which the students participating on the athletic team or in the sport compete against students participating on an athletic team or in a sport that is organized, sanctioned, or sponsored by another school corporation, public school, or nonpublic school. (2) An athletic team or sport that is organized, sanctioned, or sponsored by a nonpublic school that voluntarily competes against an athletic team or sport that is organized, sanctioned, or sponsored by a school corporation or public school. (3) An athletic team or sport approved or sanctioned by an association for purposes of participation in a high school HEA 1041
2 interscholastic athletic event. Sec. 2. As used in this chapter, "association" has the meaning set forth in IC 20-26-14-1. Sec. 3. As used in this chapter, "public school" means the following: (1) A school maintained by a school corporation. (2) A charter school. Sec. 4. (a) A school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, or association that organizes, sanctions, or sponsors an athletic team or sport described in section 1 of this chapter shall expressly designate the athletic team or sport as one (1) of the following: (1) A male, men's, or boys' team or sport. (2) A female, women's, or girls' team or sport. (3) A coeducational or mixed team or sport. (b) A male, based on a student's biological sex at birth in accordance with the student's genetics and reproductive biology, may not participate on an athletic team or sport designated under this section as being a female, women's, or girls' athletic team or sport. Sec. 5. (a) A student or parent of a student may submit a grievance to a school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, or association for a violation of section 4 of this chapter. (b) Each school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, and association described in section 4 of this chapter shall: (1) establish and maintain a grievance procedure; or (2) maintain a grievance or protest procedure that the school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, or association established before July 1, 2022; for the resolution of a grievance submitted under this section. Sec. 6. (a) If a school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, or association violates this chapter, a student who is: (1) deprived of an athletic opportunity; or (2) otherwise directly or indirectly injured; as a result of the violation may bring a civil action against the school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, or association. (b) A school corporation, public school, nonpublic school, or association may not retaliate or otherwise take any adverse action against a student for reporting a violation or bringing a civil action for a violation of this chapter. Sec. 7. The court may award to a student who prevails in an action under section 6 of this chapter any of the following: (1) Injunctive relief. HEA 1041
3 (2) The greater of: (A) actual and consequential damages resulting from the violation; or (B) liquidated damages of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000). (3) Costs and reasonable attorney's fees. (4) Any other appropriate relief determined by the court. Sec. 8. A school corporation, a public school, a nonpublic school, and an association are not subject to liability in: (1) a civil; (2) an administrative; (3) a disciplinary; or (4) a criminal; action for acting in good faith in compliance with this chapter. SECTION 3. IC 34-30-2-86.8 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2022]: Sec. 86.8. IC 20-33-13-8 (Concerning school corporations, public schools, nonpublic schools, and athletic associations that comply with requirements regarding athletic teams and sports). HEA 1041
Speaker of the House of Representatives President of the Senate President Pro Tempore Governor of the State of Indiana Date: Time: HEA 1041
[extracted by pdf-snapshot.ts with strike detection, 2026-09-27T07:50:03.805Z, https://iga.in.gov/pdf-documents/122/2022/house/bills/HB1041/HB1041.05.ENRS.pdf, from saved file]
