Diane Desotelle wins Duluth City Council District 2 race - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Diane Desotelle wins Duluth City Council District 2 race By WDIO --> Duluth voters have elected a new face to the Duluth City Council District 2 seat. With 100% of the precincts reporting, voters have chosen civil engineer Diane Desotelle (80%) over Chris Adatte (20%) to represent District 2. District 2 includes the Congdon, Endion, and Kenwood neighborhoods, as well as a portion of the Chester Park neighborhood. Duluth City Councilor Mike Mayou, who represented the second district, announced in April he would not seek reelection and stepped down. WDIO sat down with Desotelle, prior to election day, and she shared her vision for Duluth. Diane Desotelle Interview with candidate Diane Desotelle, Duluth City Council District 2 Full interview with Diane Desotelle, candidate for Duluth City Council District 2. The Mayor has said Duluth will be facing a tight budget next year. In your mind, what should be prioritized? "Actually, two areas. I think housing and childcare, and then our infrastructure. We really need to focus on that because even the Chamber of Commerce will say that housing and childcare is number one for getting economic development in and that's really important for helping to build our base and make it a little bit stronger." Do you still cite taking care of our open public spaces as a key issue of yours, as you did when we spoke before the primary, and how do those play into budget concerns? "Absolutely, it's a primary concern because that's the balance of who we are as a society. You have your open spaces, you have your economy, and you have your social structure and that social network is important to actually all those things. It's important to our economy, and it's important to our social fabric and we depend a lot on our partners to help maintain these open spaces and make sure that they're there not only for us as citizens, but for people who come to visit us. And, I think that the city needs to make that one of their high priorities because we depend on that because it's who we are." In a questionnaire sent out to WDIO viewers, the issue of homelessness was repeatedly cited as a major concern. What is your stance on the issue? "I was actually just with the Affordable Housing Coalition, yesterday, and what a great group of partners working on these issues related to those who are unhouse, those who are facing mental health and opioid use services, substance abuse, and everybody's working together on this. The city is an important conduit to that. Housing is critical and it should not be something that's a commodity. It should be something that's part of our important infrastructure and used for folks because if folks aren't housed, it increases safety issues, it increases health issues, and I think it increases costs because they're in and out of housing, trying to get care&#8211;and they can't get that mental capacity to just try to care for themselves and move forward without shelter. So, shelter is really important. We're going to need to work with our partners, the county, the state&#8211;on looking at different ways to help move this forward a little faster. We've got a plan. It's just how fast we move on it." In these politically divided times, what do you see as your role in helping people move together as one? "I really appreciate that because I've been thinking about that a lot and I see the City Council as a team of folks working together. It'll be a great balance of issues because you need to hear things on all sides and I hope that if I am on the Council&#8211;one of the things I've learned reaching out to folks and increasing my circle of people I know and areas of expertise, is to have teams of folks I can go to on certain issues. You can't do this kind of position alone. You really need folks that are experts in certain areas that can say this is a good way to do it or not and help you try to balance those issues as well as working them&#8211; with [the] Council to brainstorm ideas and then put together good resolutions and ordinances together." Final message for voters? "I have the skills to do this. I'm ready to do this. I have been working in government on and off for years. I've also been in the private sector and I've taught in schools. So, I've got a breath of background. I know a lot of folks in the community. I'm ready to step up and do the hard work. It's been a pleasure knocking on over 2,000 doors over the last six months and meeting folks and getting to know neighborhoods in a whole new way and I'm excited about what's to come." ——————————————————————- Earlier in the year, the City Council selected Deb DeLuca, the first female executive director of the Duluth Seaway Port Authority, to temporarily fill the District 2 seat until the winner of November 4's election is sworn-in in January 2026. RELATED: WDIO full election results For Related Stories: Election 2025 Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed