Chum, local congregations working together on affordable housing advocacy - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Chum, local congregations working together on affordable housing advocacy Liam Fellman WDIO --> Chum housing advocacy Chum and local church congregations met for the first time to discuss next steps regarding affordable housing. Duluth community members gathered at Pilgrim Congregational Church to discuss affordable housing, and what steps are being taken to help the homeless and unhoused. This is the first meeting between congregations that work with Chum to inform and educate people about the three-phase program "Stepping On Up" &#8211; which aims to end unsheltered homelessness in the Duluth area. "I'd say we're in phase two. Phase one was just trying to get some of the emergency stuff in place, and phase two is that shelter issue. We still need to get some more beds out just to save lives. Shelters are to save lives. And then we are at the same time working on phase three, which is housing," said Chum delegate and Pilgrim Church of Christ member Diane Desotelle. Chum needs about $1.2 million to help finish their shelter expansion, but they have even more ambitious plans on the horizon. "We are at the same time working on phase three, which is housing. Housing is homes, homes for all, so that everybody can live a whole, self-sustaining life that's affordable to them. Of course, when we mention affordable housing, it's deeply affordable housing that needs to be dealt with," said Desotelle. The term "deeply affordable housing" refers to people putting no more than 30% of their personal income towards housing. Desotelle noted that when people have to pay more than that to house themselves, their other needs can't be met. For more information on "Stepping On Up" and ways to contribute, visit their website here , or Chum's website here . For Related Stories: Liam Fellman Affordable Housing Chum --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed