Desotelle dominates in Duluth City Council District 2 race - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Desotelle dominates in Duluth City Council District 2 race She defeated Chris Adatte by a 60-percentage-point margin. Duluth City Council District 2 candidate Diane Desotelle, left, shares a laugh with her sister Susan Mountain, of St. Paul, and son Michael Streitz, of Minneapolis, during a DFL election night party at Lyric Kitchen. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group By Jimmy Lovrien November 04, 2025 at 11:02 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Diane Desotelle easily won the District 2 seat on the City Council. Unofficial results reported to the Minnesota Secretary of State showed Desotelle with 79.8% of the vote, while opponent Chris Adatte had 19.7%. A total of 3,470 votes were tallied as of 10:45 p.m. with all six precincts reporting. ADVERTISEMENT Reached by phone Tuesday evening, Desotelle had just left the DFL election night gathering at the Lyric Kitchen Bar in downtown Duluth, where the party was celebrating the wins of Desotelle and two other DFL-endorsed candidates — District 4 candidate David Clanaugh and at large candidate Jordon Johnson. Desotelle said she was looking forward to working on a council with "a bigger heart." "I look forward to working with all the councilors and the commissioners and the administration," Desotelle said. "And having our voices heard and making sure we're listening well to the community as we move forward — I think we're really not all that far off." District 2 includes parts of several neighborhoods east of downtown, including Congdon, Endion, Kenwood and a portion of Chester Park. Diane Desotelle chats with supporters Tuesday. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group Desotelle said she was also excited about Clanaugh's win over incumbent Tara Swenson in the District 4 race. "Tara was a great counselor, was very approachable," Desotelle said. "I could have worked with her well, too. I think David brings to the table an interesting aspect of some of the social values that need to be heard just a little stronger in council." The new councilors' terms start in January. ADVERTISEMENT Desotelle, a retired civil engineer and a natural resource planner, said she wants to focus on three key areas: attracting new businesses, preserving open spaces, and prioritizing housing for those who are unsheltered. Chris Adatte Deborah DeLuca currently holds the District 2 seat. DeLuca, the former executive director of the Duluth Seaway Port Authority, was appointed in August to fill the remainder of the term after Mike Mayou resigned due to a change of residence that took him outside the district's boundaries. MORE ELECTION STORIES Duluth renters prevail in campaign to address delayed home repairs Nov 5, 2025 Clanaugh upsets incumbent in Duluth's 4th District council race Nov 4, 2025 Tomanek, Johnson win Duluth City Council at large seats Nov 5, 2025 Duluth School Board incumbents sweep election Nov 5, 2025 Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ELECTION 2025 DULUTH GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.