Duluth bars new vacation rentals from single-family homes - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth bars new vacation rentals from single-family homes The ordinance, passed unanimously, is meant to combat the housing shortage. It also puts the fire department’s Life Safety Division in charge of permitting and enforcement of vacation rentals. Park Point and Hearding Island, right, in Duluth, as seen from West Skyline Parkway. Park Point was noted as a neighborhood with an influx of short-term rentals that are negatively impacting Duluth's housing stock. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group file photo By Jimmy Lovrien September 14, 2026 at 9:36 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — The city is cracking down on short-term rentals. The Duluth City Council unanimously approved an ordinance Monday evening barring short-term rentals in single-family homes and enforcing a crackdown on illegal vacation rentals operating without permits. ADVERTISEMENT But councilors, expecting loopholes and other consequences of the changing rules to emerge, said it would need refining. Council President Lynn Marie Nephew said that while she supported the move, she and Councilor Terese Tomanek, who represents the city at large, planned to pen a resolution requiring the council to revisit and update it annually. "I do think there's holes in this. ... I think it's a place to start, and I'm the first one to say that this may not be perfect, and I think that's OK because we need some data," Nephew said. Local PREVIOUSLY: Duluth considers barring single-family homes from becoming vacation rentals The proposed changes come after concerns that certain neighborhoods, like Park Point, were overrun with short-term rentals and that the influx of vacation rentals is eating into the city's housing stock. Aug 8 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien The lack of data, she said, stems from a lack of enforcement, which will now change. The city will add enforcement staff and make the fire department’s Life Safety Division the lead department for permitting and enforcing vacation rentals, adding a website where people can look up a rental’s ownership information and a 24/7 hotline where an employee can take down complaints and contact the owner. An existing 110-license cap applies to short-term rentals; however, no cap exists in form districts like downtown, Lincoln Park and Spirit Valley. There are approximately 200 permitted short-term rental licenses for vacation dwelling units in the city, but likely more than 400 additional properties that are unlicensed and operating illegally, the city estimated. ADVERTISEMENT At-large Councilor Arik Forsman said the ability to address the "bad actors" operating unlicensed short-term rentals is a win. "For us as a city to finally crack down on some of those, that is the first improvement that I see being made here," Forsman said. Existing permitted short-term rentals in single-family homes would be allowed to continue operating as long as they remain active, or until they are sold or change use. Accessory dwelling units under 800 square feet on a single-family home’s property would be eligible, and single-family homes that remain occupied by their owners would be allowed, under a home share permit, to rent out a room rather than the entire home. The move comes after the city in November imposed a one-year moratorium on issuing new short-term rental licenses so it could study existing policies and consider possible changes. News FROM 2015: Duluth places moratorium on vacation rental permits The Duluth City Council unanimously voted to temporarily put the brakes on the issuance of permits for vacation rental properties. Jun 15, 2015 &#183; By Peter Passi Before the moratorium, the concentration of rentals in neighborhoods like Park Point grew significantly. Councilor Wendy Durrwachter, who represents the city's 1st District, said she supported the ordinance, but, like others, had reservations. ADVERTISEMENT Still, she said she wants the city to address the "bigger problem" of unlicensed rentals. "I have some constituents that I've been working with that are very responsible short-term rental owners," Durrwachter said. "I also recognize how valuable it is to not move forward with any new short-term rentals in our neighborhoods of single-family homes, and so I support that part fully." About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL DULUTH PARK POINT HOUSING GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.