Desotelle, Adatte advance in Duluth City Council District 2 primary - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Desotelle, Adatte advance in Duluth City Council District 2 primary The two will vie to represent parts of several neighborhoods east of downtown, including Congdon, Endion, Kenwood and a portion of Chester Park in the Nov. 4 general election. Diane Desotelle, left, and Chris Adatte. Contributed / Diane Desotelle and Chris Adatte By Jimmy Lovrien August 12, 2025 at 9:53 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Diane Desotelle and Chris Adatte will face off in November to represent District 2 on the City Council. According to unofficial results late Tuesday, Desotelle earned 79.92% of the vote while Adatte finished with 16.97% of the vote, with all six of the precincts reporting. ADVERTISEMENT District 2 includes parts of several neighborhoods east of downtown, including Congdon, Endion, Kenwood and a portion of Chester Park. A third candidate, Pierre Tournier, will not advance. He gathered 3.11% of the vote. Desotelle, a retired civil engineer and a natural resource planner, said she was "thrilled" with the results. "We're celebrating tonight," Desotelle said. She said her campaign will "keep doing what we're doing," like knocking on doors, meeting people and talking to experts about the issues between now and the Nov. 4 election. Adatte, the owner of AG O'Brien Plumbing & Heating, said he expected to come in second and acknowledged he "squeaked through." "We have a long road ahead of us and a lot of work to do" ahead of the general election, Adatte said. ADVERTISEMENT The seat is currently held by Deborah DeLuca. On Monday, the council unanimously selected DeLuca, the former executive director of the Duluth Seaway Port Authority, to represent the 2nd District for the remainder of the year, yielding in January to whomever wins a full four-year term in November's election. The seat was vacated at the end of June when Mike Mayou resigned due to a change of residence that took him outside the district's boundaries. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags ELECTION 2025 DULUTH CITY COUNCIL DULUTH By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 8h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 13h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.