Duluth Primary results certified - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth Primary results certified By WDIO --> The Duluth City Council held a special meeting Friday, August 15, to certify the results of the Municipal Primary Election held on Tuesday, August 12. Four candidates have advanced to the November ballot for the two Duluth City Council At-Large seats. Incumbent, Terese Tomanek received 34% of the votes, followed by Jordon Johnson with 26%, Derek Medved with 23%, and Asher Estrin-Haire with 9%. In the Duluth City Council District 2 race, Diane Desotelle and Christopher Adatte advanced to the General Election. Desotelle received 80% of the total votes. Duluth City Councilor Mike Mayou, who represented the second district, announced in April he would not seek reelection. Under Minnesota law, the City Clerk's Office has up to three days to certify election results. The General Election will be held on November 4. Full results for all races can be found here . For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed