Three candidates vying for Duluth City Council District 2 seat - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Three candidates vying for Duluth City Council District 2 seat By WDIO --> Three candidates will appear on the Minnesota Municipal Primary Election ballot for Duluth's District 2 City Council seat. The primary election is being held on Tuesday, August 12. Two of the candidates will advance to the general election in November. District 2 includes the Congdon, Endion, and Kenwood neighborhoods, as well as a portion of the Chester Park neighborhood. WDIO recently hosted the three candidates for one-on-one interviews. The three candidates were all asked questions in the same vein, but were not asked the same questions verbatim. CHRIS ADATTE Chris Adatte, Duluth Distric 2 City Council candidate WDIO speaks with Chris Adatte, candidate for Duluth City Council District 2 On why he is qualified he is qualified to run: "I work for A.G. O' Brien Plumbing and Heating. We're a service residential commercial contractor and I just spend a lot of time over the span of my career just working in the commercial space and I see the struggles that contractors, developers, even people on the public sector side for the city just have getting through a project and it's not one individual's fault, it's just the process itself is a little clunky, right? And that, I think, just gives me a unique opportunity to come in as like a public official, if I were to be elected, and go mitigate some of these issues to help encourage more business to come in town which would boost our revenue. So, I just see the problems in construction. I'm kind of hyper-focused on fixing and smoothing that process out because I see that and a lack of resources around town is kind of like the root of all our problems." On what he sees as the key issues: "Infrastructure — last summer a 15 inch sewer main collapsed, you guys actually covered the story, and sewage went into Chester Bowl, the creek. I live right next to Chester Bowl and that obviously wasn't great. And just in my conversations with the city, it's like there is miles and miles of pipes, infrastructure, critical infrastructure that needs to be maintained and that requires resources to fix it. So, obviously people in the district want their lead services replaced, which is happening. They want sewer, storm, all their infrastructure to be working safely, properly, well-funded. Housing's a big one. I don't think anyone in the district wants to see their taxes go up. There's obviously a concern with the unhoused downtown. That isn't necessarily in my district, but it impacts the constituents in the district. And again, the root of all these problems is funding. So, it really kind of just ties back into my theme of just making it easier for people to come here and start a business, add onto a business, renovate their business, hire people, grow their business, pay taxes, put that in the city's coffers, fund all the issues we have. So, that's what I think the people want. District 2, they love our parks. We have Hartley, we have Chester, we have Tischer. All those green spaces are wonderful, but they also take resources to parks and rec to keep them clean, keep the trash bins or the rubbish bins empty. It takes resources. We want to get more resources to the city, to take care of that stuff." On how goals can be accomplished: "Getting them the resources to grow the population, number one. You gotta get more people to come here. So, we need the housing on all levels, from affordable to high-end to mid-range, market rate, whatever. A rose by any other name, right? We need the housing available, and then that will bring the jobs, which people will move, relocate here to work them, or they'll live in a neighboring municipality and maybe their spouse will work in Duluth. Either way, when more goods and services exchange hands and our free market local economy is strong, they're paying taxes. Every construction project when it's built- we're doing in our district &#8211; there's a booster station for domestic water that provides all the domestic water up to Woodland. It's called the Woodland Booster Station. All the construction workers on that job site will go to local restaurants, local shops, local grocery stores in the district, patronize those businesses. Those businesses then will pay their employees, pay their vendors, again, goods and services exchange. It's almost like a micro-economy. And when you have more people paying into those systems, that all makes its way back to the county, to the state, to the city, which in turn comes back down in the form of reinvestment. " Final message to voters: "Give me a chance. Give me a chance. I think the town has more or less been on the same path with the same talking points. It's gotten a lot better under the current administration, but it's just, let's not just use empty platitudes to get what we need done. Let's have an uncomfortable conversation, albeit a respectful one. Let's bridge divides, right? It's not just the city's fault. It's not just the private sector's fault. I want to bring people together as a liaison, bridge the gap, have better communication. Let's not be afraid of growth. I think there's a lot of opportunity in it&#8211; better jobs &#8211;household median incomes will raise. The high tide raises all the boats. S,o take a chance on me. What you see is what you get. I want to focus on things that I can tangibly control, not empty talking points about things that are gonna give the same result&#8211;just things that I can actually fix." DIANE DESOTELLE Diane Desotelle, Duluth City Council District 2 candidate WDIO speaks with Diane Desotelle, a candidate for Duluth City Council District 2. On why she is qualified he is qualified to run: "I am a civil engineer by profession. I've done a lot of environmental engineering. I'm a land use planner and I'm an educator. I've been in several different positions, including working for the city and the state of Minnesota, and I've been a teacher in the public schools. I've been around the block a few times and I'm ready to give back. I've got a lot of experience talking about land uses&#8211;what we should use those lands for, protecting our environment, protecting our open spaces. My strengths are environmental engineering, but I understand the goal of sustainability. That is the economy, the environment, and our social fabric. And all of those three things need to come in balance with each other. And I have the experience of writing plans, ordinances, and working in local government as well as state government to understand the process. And that's also giving me a strength." On what she sees as the key issues: "When it comes to the environment, it actually focuses on those three legs. The economy&#8211; if we're not taking care of our open spaces, our tourists come to town to enjoy those spaces from the lake up into our open spaces and our trails. We're very fortunate to have a large group of nonprofits helping the city keep those open spaces intact, but a lot of us do not understand that some of those aren't permanently protected. And we have been working for years. When I was with the city, I was the very first city natural resources coordinator, which is looking at 25% of our lands and saying, &#8216;Which of those open spaces do we want to protect more permanently for parks, open space, and our health and our economy?' And those spaces, we've protected now over 2,000 acres. We have more to do, so that connection then is connected with where we want to focus development ties all together. So, I understand where those systems come together, and being an engineer&#8211;being a civil engineer&#8211;I know where the pipes and the infrastructure is, and we've talked about where should we extend it out, where should we do infill as far as developing and expanding our economy." On how goals can be accomplished: "By talking to everybody— listening both sides. One thing that's been really exciting about campaigning is my concentric circles of who I know, even beyond my professional, has expanded. I've done a lot of volunteer work too with a Chum and Stepping On Up, and those partners working on our homeless issues. So, I understand where that work is going and the positive things that are happening and where the gaps are. But, I'm not going to know everything, but I need to know the experts in the field or people that have lived that life to be able to talk about those issues, understand them better so we can bring it into good policy, that we feel that as staff and as government in the city, that we can actually enforce and carry through, and not just say, &#8216;Wow, that's a great idea, but I don't know how we're going to do it.' It's going to be hard with budgets this year." Final message to voters: "We're coming to this with joy, with excitement. We think working at the local level is very important because that's our voice there, and that local level voice expands to the state, expands to the national level. And, I want Duluth to be an example of how we can build, live sustainably, have a good economy, and have people that can live, work here, and enjoy the open spaces." PIERRE TOURNIER Pierre Tournier, Duluth City Council District 2 candidate WDIO speaks with Pierre Tournier, Duluth City Council District 2 candidate. On why he is qualified he is qualified to run: "When I look back at our city and recent events over the last couple of decades, there are a couple of things that are apparent. We are still in that small and medium-sized city, and so we don't necessarily have resources to buy expertise. We need to rely on civic engagement and rely on the people that live here to support the city. Specifically, as an actuary, I look at the long-term financial forecasting, long-term financial planning, that kind of stuff, capital markets, and with a focus on retiree, post-retiree medical, post-retiree benefits, public and private employers. Fifteen years ago, we had a crisis with that kind of stuff. And you never want to plan for yesterday's problem, but it's symptomatic of maybe an issue that we have a gap in expertise and that there are material issues that we maybe aren't covering or covering as closely as we would like to. And so that's really what started the ball rolling for me as far as thinking about running and thinking that I actually had something to offer." On what he sees as the key issues: "I think when you look at the region, and I'm talking about rural Minnesota&#8211;the Midwest in general, we've seen just a general depopulation over the last 20 or 30 years, right? And so in that context, Duluth is a winner, right? Just staying flat is already better than decreasing year-over-year like we've seen everywhere else. But with that comes a lot of strain. When you're a city that's aging, when you're a city that's trying to grow, you have a lot of capital expenses that need to come in, capital expenditures that need to happen, a lot of improvements. There's a lot of things, and we don't necessarily have scale to make these efficient. But there's still pressures. And then we combine that with short-term inflationary issues that we've been seeing, right? We combine that with uncertain funding, uncertain regulatory legislative environments, a lot of new priorities that weren't there four or five years ago, and you're creating this atmosphere where there's strain&#8211;fiscal strain, a strain on attention, strain on being able to focus on that long-term vision for what you want the city to be like. And that's a high-level overview, I think, of the major issues. The way that's getting manifested is, you see, pressure on housing. And it really comes down to that maintenance piece in that case, right? We have had a flat population, so it's not necessarily a demand issue. It's more on the supply side. And that's something that's only going to get worse. Our housing stock is among the oldest in the region, and certainly on a national basis it's quite old. So, just maintaining current housing levels is already a strain. And those are going to be the issues that are maybe not front and center, but are going to bubble and are going to get worse. And then at the same time, when I talk about new priorities, there's these questions on what can we do as a city to support civic rights&#8211;what can we do to support our less-advantaged residents, and all those things are competing for attention in dollars. And that's going to be maybe the biggest challenge, figuring out how to satisfy all these different issues with maybe a shrinking pot." On how goals can be accomplished: "I think it's almost like, it's like a metaphor in sailing, right? You try to get from point A to point B, but the wind is going to blow in different directions. And so because of that, your path is going to need to change as well, to adjust to the realities while still aiming for that long-term goal. Any government&#8211; any municipal government is going to have a finite budget and so it's going to be as much the city doing things as the city facilitating to help grease the wheels to get its priorities done. And so there's going to be a need to be a little bit more creative in some ways, and then also find where we can get the most bang for our buck. And there's going to be a balance, right? There's going to be sometimes that the short-term issues are going to take precedence and we're going to need to address those and put the long-term things on hold, but we're going to need to look at our situation holistically rather than on a case-by-case basis." Final message to voters: "I think really at the end of the day, what we need, both within this race and within the city, is more civic engagement. And that's really the spirit that I'm coming to this position, looking to get this role, is the spirit of civic engagement that I feel like I have something to offer and I would encourage other people to offer what they can to help build and maintain and grow our city in the direction that we want. And that's really the spirit that I'm coming at this with, and I'm encouraging other people to have the same view and to try to work as best we can to move Duluth forward." The District 2 seat was previously held by Mike Mayou who stepped down earlier this year. The vacant seat will be temporarily filled by a person selected by the Duluth City Council on Monday, August 11. The interim replacement will hold the seat until the winner of the November election is sworn in in January, 2026. RELATED: Meet the Candidates running for Duluth’s At-Large City Council seats For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed