Speaking with the candidates for Duluth City Council District 2 - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Speaking with the candidates for Duluth City Council District 2 By WDIO --> Talking with the candidates for Duluth City Council District 2 Two candidates are running for the empty District 2 seat on the Duluth City Council, Diane Desotelle and Christopher Adatte. Two candidates in Duluth are vying for the District 2 City Council seat previously held by Mike Mayou who stepped down earlier this year. District 2 includes the Congdon, Endion, and Kenwood neighborhoods, as well as a portion of the Chester Park neighborhood. Chris Adatte, the president of A.G. O'Brien Plumbing and Heating, and Diane Desotelle, a civil engineer, both advanced from the primary election in the summer to the general election on November 4. WDIO recently hosted the two candidates for one-on-one interviews. The candidates were both asked questions in the same vein, but were not asked the same questions verbatim. Chris Adatte Interview with candidate Chris Adatte, Duluth City Council District 2 Full interview with Chris Adatte, candidate for Duluth City Council District 2. The Mayor has said Duluth will be facing a tight budget next year. In your mind, what should be prioritized? "That's a tough one. I mean, I think you've got to break down. I think emergency services are non-negotiable. You can't touch those. You, probably, have to go down the line of services that the city provides- see where you could sensibly outsource to the private sector to compensate, albeit temporarily, in the meantime. Nobody likes austerity, but I think the biggest thing&#8211; not to pivot away from your question, but we've got to look back at why we got here in the first place and that's a lack of commercial tax base growth. Not enough people are coming to town, buying homes, opening up businesses, getting jobs, paying into the system to pay our bills. So now, because that hasn't happened, we've got to roll back some services, which nobody wants, but the cost of staying the same is just too much. So, you're probably looking at&#8211; off the top of my head, to be perfectly honest, I don't know where I would make cuts, but anything that you could feasibly outsource through an RFP process to the private sector, which I understand would be wildly unpopular&#8211;but the city has an expectation to deliver these services that if they can't afford to, the free market's going to have to compete to split the difference." Do you still cite the sustainability of infrastructure and housing as key issues of yours, as you did when we spoke before the primary, and how do those play into budget concerns? "A few weeks after our interview, we had a water main break, right on 8th Street, which was obviously not great. Those pipes aren't getting any younger. They're going to have to be replaced. Infrastructure is still going to have to be upgraded. And again, the only way to pay for this stuff is to get more business in town. We need more people building. We need more people moving here. They need houses. I was just talking about this at the Planning Commission, the other day. We have to offload Lester Park, get some houses there, get employee workforce. These employers in town need people to come here, paying into the system to pay these bills and I think the only way to do that is just to simplify the construction process&#8211; just through communication. I'm not asking to cut red tape, I'm not asking to give entrepreneurs a free break or an easier go of it&#8211;just clear expectations from people on the private sector side to people on the public side. Hold everybody accountable, to the person submitting the permit, to the person reviewing the permit. They've got to do it one way. They've got to be held to a certain set of standards. The person reviewing the permit, they should be held to the same set of standards. If it's going to take three weeks, it's got to take three weeks. It can't take three months. People [have] money on the line. That matters. When Duluth is a more predictable place to make an investment, more money's going to come here and our budget woes are going to go away, but, until then, it's going to be a little tight. In a questionnaire sent out to WDIO viewers, the issue of homelessness was repeatedly cited as a major concern. What is your stance on the issue? "Homelessness is a multi-pronged issue. A lot of times, it's people in transitional housing. There's not enough housing available. Maybe they just lost their job. Maybe it's somebody that needs some mental health support. There's people that have substance abuse issues. The only way to fix homelessness is to provide homes. The only way to provide homes is to make that process of building homes predictable and more easy to do. I'm not trying to repeat myself, but the problem's all kind of rhyme. We need more housing on all income levels, not just low-income housing. We need decent middle-sized housing. We need upper echelon types of housing. But, to get people off the street, to get them from rough sleeping, we need to provide them shelter and we need the land to do it. We need contractors confident enough to lean in and take a chance, build that, work through construction services, work with inspectors, know that they're gonna be amenable and work with them to get this stuff cranked out. When it's too risky and it's unpredictable, everyone's costs are going to go up and housing's going to be unaffordable. We also need more mental health support services, whether that's non-police-related support staff, or places for these folks to go and get the help that they need. But again, that all costs money. We need help from the county, the federal government. I don't know how much help we're gonna get from the federal government. So in my eyes, our biggest issue is making us as self-sustaining as possible and that can only be done by getting people with resources to settle down roots here. Our number one export is college students. Get more of those people to stay here. Open up a business, expand a business, get a job here, start a family here, send their kids to school here, pay into the system so the system can, you know, reinvest back into the community. That's the only way you're gonna fix homelessness. Otherwise, it's just going to be something that we talk about, never can seem to solve, and never have any money to do anything about. That's the only way. I'm not doubting that you have to allocate resources and give people the time. You just need the money to do it. In these politically divided times, what do you see as your role in helping people move together as one? "I think it's okay to have disagreements. I think we have to work on how we talk to each other, especially on social media, right? I've been lambasted a lot for nefarious intentions and why do I wanna make construction easier? I'm in the construction industry. Am I corrupt? [There have been] just wild accusations on my character, right? I'm a father of two. I'm married at home. I'm 37 years old. I'm just trying to make my way of it, right? I see some problems. I'm trying to lean in. That doesn't mean I'm steeped in graft. It's just, I'm trying to make resources more available, but I think it's okay to disagree with what I want to do or how I want to do it and I think just having a healthy exchange of ideas, it's good that we disagree. "We don't want group think. We don't all wanna be in lockstep with everything. Just healthy debate, that's where the best ideas come to the top. But it's how we do it, right? Let's get out of the business of character assassination or hurling insults or throwing rocks and hiding our hands. It's just like, look, people on these committees, these commissions, these boards and city council, they don't make a ton of money. By and large, they're volunteering their time. They're just trying to make the community a better place in a way that they see fit, right? I don't think we should be mirroring our politics and our dialogue at the federal level. I think it's just being respectful, right? And I think that that comes from, you and I might not see the same way and it's okay that we disagree. But finding this place where we can compromise and ,as the old saying goes, a good compromise leaves both parties equally dissatisfied. I don't necessarily get everything I want. You didn't necessarily get everything you wanted, but we found something that we both need and we can get there in the same way and just finding an amicable way to communicate, I think is what we've got to do as a country, as a community, as a neighborhood. And it starts with just people like you and me, right? Just dial down the rhetoric-don't need to be inflammatory-don't need to be spiteful. Not everybody has nefarious intentions just because you don't see eye to eye on all the issues. That's where I would start. That's what I've been trying to do." Final message for voters? "Whether you're voting for me or you're voting for my opponent, I think we're not too far off on the issues. I think we want to get to the same place. I think the crux of our divide is really just how do we get the money? How do we get the tax revenue? How do we get the money where we need it? Whether it's the roads, emergency services, homeless shelters, more housing, money for our parks, all the things that we love and need and come to expect in our community. We need, again, people with resources, businesses coming in here to pay taxes, to be collected by the city and the county and the state, to be reinvested into our community. [The state's looking at a pretty ugly budget deficit. So is the city. Federal government [is] making cuts across the board. We need to be self-sufficient. We need to open up and be open to different ideas and how we get there and get the money into town, the investment, the capital, goods and services, exchanging hands, getting taxed in the process. It just has to be easier to do&#8211;more of a predictable outcome and absolutely held accountable. That's my biggest message. Whether you vote for me or anybody else, just economic growth shouldn't be empty talk. How are you going to get the money here? Where's it going to go afterwards? That's it." Diane Desotelle Interview with candidate Diane Desotelle, Duluth City Council District 2 Full interview with Diane Desotelle, candidate for Duluth City Council District 2. The Mayor has said Duluth will be facing a tight budget next year. In your mind, what should be prioritized? "Actually, two areas. I think housing and childcare, and then our infrastructure. We really need to focus on that because even the Chamber of Commerce will say that housing and childcare is number one for getting economic development in and that's really important for helping to build our base and make it a little bit stronger." Do you still cite taking care of our open public spaces as a key issue of yours, as you did when we spoke before the primary, and how do those play into budget concerns? "Absolutely, it's a primary concern because that's the balance of who we are as a society. You have your open spaces, you have your economy, and you have your social structure and that social network is important to actually all those things. It's important to our economy, and it's important to our social fabric and we depend a lot on our partners to help maintain these open spaces and make sure that they're there not only for us as citizens, but for people who come to visit us. And, I think that the city needs to make that one of their high priorities because we depend on that because it's who we are." In a questionnaire sent out to WDIO viewers, the issue of homelessness was repeatedly cited as a major concern. What is your stance on the issue? "I was actually just with the Affordable Housing Coalition, yesterday, and what a great group of partners working on these issues related to those who are unhouse, those who are facing mental health and opioid use services, substance abuse, and everybody's working together on this. The city is an important conduit to that. Housing is critical and it should not be something that's a commodity. It should be something that's part of our important infrastructure and used for folks because if folks aren't housed, it increases safety issues, it increases health issues, and I think it increases costs because they're in and out of housing, trying to get care&#8211;and they can't get that mental capacity to just try to care for themselves and move forward without shelter. So, shelter is really important. We're going to need to work with our partners, the county, the state&#8211;on looking at different ways to help move this forward a little faster. We've got a plan. It's just how fast we move on it." In these politically divided times, what do you see as your role in helping people move together as one? "I really appreciate that because I've been thinking about that a lot and I see the City Council as a team of folks working together. It'll be a great balance of issues because you need to hear things on all sides and I hope that if I am on the Council&#8211;one of the things I've learned reaching out to folks and increasing my circle of people I know and areas of expertise, is to have teams of folks I can go to on certain issues. You can't do this kind of position alone. You really need folks that are experts in certain areas that can say this is a good way to do it or not and help you try to balance those issues as well as working them&#8211; with [the] Council to brainstorm ideas and then put together good resolutions and ordinances together." Final message for voters? "I have the skills to do this. I'm ready to do this. I have been working in government on and off for years. I've also been in the private sector and I've taught in schools. So, I've got a breath of background. I know a lot of folks in the community. I'm ready to step up and do the hard work. It's been a pleasure knocking on over 2,000 doors over the last six months and meeting folks and getting to know neighborhoods in a whole new way and I'm excited about what's to come." For Related Stories: Duluth Minnesota Politics Northern Minnesota --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed