Duluth settles with state agencies over 2024 Tischer Creek fishkill - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth settles with state agencies over 2024 Tischer Creek fishkill By WDIO --> Dead fish lie in Tischer Creek in Duluth, Minnesota, Aug. 5, 2024. They MPCA investigated the site after a report was made to the Minnesota Duty Officer about the release of about 500,000 gallons of city water from a reservoir July 31, 2024. More than 1,000 dead fish, including brook trout, were counted. (Photo by MPCA watershed ecologist Jeff Jasperson) The City of Duluth will pay a $12,000 fine and $190,000 in compensation after a 2024 incident killed about 2,300 fish in Tischer Creek, according to a release from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). The settlement with the MPCA and the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) follows the August 2024 release of 1.7 million gallons of treated drinking water containing chlorine and ammonia into the creek. Nearly 1,600 of the fish killed were brook trout. The city said the water was safe to drink, but was fatal to fish. The $190,000 compensation is a natural resource damage assessment (NRDA) claim and will fund restoration projects, including removing barriers to fish migration. The city will also implement a learn-to-fish program in coordination with the Hartley Nature Center. MCPA says the city has made changes to its stormwater pollution prevention program to prevent future discharges from the drinking water system into lakes, rivers, streams and wetlands. RELATED: Duluth eyes Tischer Creek restoration The settlement was originally approved by Duluth City Councilors during a February 23 meeting. At the time, Councilor Diane Desotelle said, “We had made a mistake and now we’re going to make lemonade because we have projects on this creek. There’s a lot of areas that we’ve been wanting to work on and so that money is going to go right back into our resource." The MPCA said it remains committed to protecting human health and the environment by enforcing rules and regulations and limiting pollution emissions and discharges from facilities. “When regulated parties do not fully comply with regulatory requirements, the resulting pollution can be harmful to people and the environment,” the MPCA said. For Related Stories: Duluth Northern Minnesota --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed