Our View/Endorsement: Pick Desotelle, her focus on infrastructure, Duluth's economy - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Subscribers Only Opinion Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Pick Desotelle, her focus on infrastructure, Duluth's economy From the editorial: "She envisions a more walkable and bikeable downtown, Canal Park, Lincoln Park Craft District, and other better-connected areas. Downtown can be more inviting, she said." Diane Desotelle Contributed/Diane Desotelle By the News Tribune Editorial Board September 26, 2025 at 10:16 AM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Diane Desotelle is a retired city engineer, an educator, and was Duluth’s first natural-resources coordinator. She helped update the city’s decades-old land-use plan, and, while working for the state, she helped lead the revitalization of the St. Louis River, including habitat restoration and sediment cleanup. In the Nov. 4 election, eligible voters in Duluth’s District 2 can add another line to Desotelle’s impressive resume. They can choose her to represent them on the City Council, to replace Mike Mayou, who stepped down this year after moving out of the district, and Deborah DeLuca, who was appointed to fill the seat on an interim basis. ADVERTISEMENT “I’m running to support our economy (and) encourage local investment,” Desotelle said at a candidate forum in Canal Park this month hosted and moderated by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. “I’m running to help strengthen our social fabric by working to unleash the power of volunteers in our public spaces and neighborhoods. I’m running to protect our environment for … our health, happiness, and the importance of ecological diversity. … “I've managed projects and written land-use plans and natural-resource plans for local governments. I’ve helped develop commissions. I’ve written ordinances. These democratic processes are driven by public input,” she said. “There are no shortcuts in writing good policy and especially good policy that's sound, just, and equitable.” To bolster Duluth’s economy, it’s on the city to ensure that infrastructure — things like sewer lines, water systems, and streets — is up to snuff and that there’s affordable housing and child care for workers looking to move here with families, Desotelle explained. All those things work together to encourage effective economic development. And there are “ways to do this,” she said, without “putting pressure on folks that are on single-income. We don’t want to raise their taxes so high that they end up moving out, because then we have another issue to deal with.” Desotelle said she “tend(s) to be fiscally conservative,” while also praising “businesses who come in and take a risk and put money out front and hire folks to come here, and (those folks also) take risks. I’m beginning to think the city needs to stand up and take a little bit more risk and work quicker and faster on getting infrastructure and housing in order.” In other ways, Desotelle is liberal. She’s endorsed by the DFL and would oppose any effort to defund the library, parks, or efforts to preserve and protect Duluth’s open spaces, she said. She envisions a more walkable and bikeable downtown, Canal Park, Lincoln Park Craft District, and other better-connected areas. Downtown can be more inviting, she said, with empty spaces converted to housing and Duluth’s unhoused population getting the mental health and other services they need. Desotelle has volunteered for Chum and the Stepping On Up initiative that’s combating homelessness in Duluth. Her opponent in the race is Chris Adatte, who owns A.G. O’Brien Plumbing and Heating and who is a member of both the Duluth Planning Commission and Heritage Preservation Commission. Adatte also served on the Public Utilities Commission. Like Desotelle, Adatte is pro-economic growth. He didn’t attend the candidate forum due to a family health crisis. ADVERTISEMENT While he deals with that, and while voters can encourage him to stay involved in public service, Desotelle is ready to step in now and begin representing District 2, which includes the Endion, hillside, Congdon, and Kenwood neighborhoods, as well as the campuses of the University of Minnesota Duluth and College of St. Scholastica. “It’s going to be important for us to diversify our economy and fill out that downtown with businesses and commercial. We want to keep (graduated college) students here if we can,” she said. “If we don’t have housing, the businesses don’t come; so it’s kind of that chicken or egg. It’s the city’s responsibility to have that infrastructure ready to get that housing in order so businesses come in.” ABOUT THIS ENDORSEMENT This News Tribune editorial was determined and written entirely by the newspaper’s Editorial Board. READ MORE IN OPINION Incumbent's View: Let's renew the spirit that built Minnesota 8h ago Candidate's View: It's time we put people over profit 8h ago Editorial cartoon for Monday, Oct. 5, 2026 12h ago Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 1d ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 1d ago Editorial cartoon for Sunday, Oct. 4, 2026 1d ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags OUR VIEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ELECTION 2025 By the News Tribune Editorial Board “Our View” editorials in the News Tribune are the opinion of the newspaper as determined by its Editorial Board. Current board members are Publisher Neal Ronquist, Editorial Page Editor Chuck Frederick, and Employee Representative Kris Vereecken. Listen to this article What To Read Next Columns Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 2d ago &#183; By Richard E. Pierce Subscribers Only Cartoons Editorial cartoon for Saturday, Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Joe Heller Columns Candidate's View: Experience ensures northern voices will be heard in St. Paul 3d ago &#183; By Aaron Kania ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.