Former city employee announces candidacy for Duluth City Council District 2 - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Former city employee announces candidacy for Duluth City Council District 2 By WDIO --> Diane Desotelle launches campaign for city council A former city employee and teacher wants to represent the 2nd district on the Duluth City Council. Engineer and former city employee Diane Desotelle has announced she is running for the Duluth City Council District 2 seat following Councilor Mike Mayou's announcement that he would not be seeking reelection. She stood with dozens of supporters at city hall on Tuesday at 12pm. "I believe in Duluth," she said. “As a citizen I’ve seen what can be accomplished when your city councilor listens to you and works with you,” said Desotelle. “With Mike Mayou not running for reelection, I want to be the person working with the residents of District 2. I’m aware of the challenges facing our city. I’m ready to get to work.” Desotelle, who is now retired, previously worked as a civil engineer and natural resource planner. She also served as Duluth's first Natural Resources Coordinator. She also stated that her background includes being a small business owner, teacher, union member, and advocate for affordable housing. She lives in the Congdon neighborhood with her husband where they raised their two sons. For Related Stories: Duluth Twin Ports --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed