Two new councilors sworn in at Duluth City Hall - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Two new councilors sworn in at Duluth City Hall Alex Sapp WDIO --> Two new councilors sworn in at Duluth City Hall For 2026, the a third of the Duluth City Council will be first-term members. November's election saw three newcomers win spots on the Duluth City Council. With 2026 meetings set to begin in just a few days time, two of them took their oath of office on January 5. At-large councilor Jordon Johnson, and Diane Desotelle, who represents the city's second district, were sworn in during a brief ceremony by a local judge. They were also joined by Terese Tomanek, the sole incumbent to win reelection in 2025. The incoming councilors say they're looking forward to getting to work. “The big thing is first, just doing a lot of listening and learning," said Desotelle. A former civil engineer, she intends to lean into this background during her time on the council. "I think it'll be exciting to have a city counselor that has an environmental background as we think about our open spaces and how to balance that use with housing and our economics," she added. Going into the new year, a third of the council will be represented by first-termers. Johnson reflected on this fact, and says he looks forward to it. "I think there's a dynamic council that we have coming in starting in 2026. I think there's a lot of ways we will complement one another, challenge one another," he told WDIO in an interview, "You get perspectives that you might not have thought about and you hear questions you might not have thought about." Several city officials were on hand at the ceremony, including Mayor Roger Reinert, who himself served on the city council for a number of years. When asked if he had any advice to share for the newly elected councilors, he stressed communication. “I always invested a lot of time in my one-on-one counselor relationships," the Mayor said, "Turn to your more veteran counselors, even if you're not politically on the same page, they want you to be successful." David Clanaugh, who will represent the fourth district was not in attendence, due to a work commitment. In a Facebook post , he told constituents he'll be sworn in prior to the start of the first council meeting of 2026, an agenda on January 8. More information about the Duluth City Council, including agendas, meeting schedules, and replays of meetings can be found on the city's website. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed