Duluth eyes Tischer Creek restoration - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth eyes Tischer Creek restoration Alex Sapp WDIO --> Duluth eyes Tischer Creek restoration After treated water released into a creek killed hundreds of fish, the City of Duluth is learning more about what it will take to clean it all up. In August of 2024, 1.7 million gallons of treated drinking water was released from a reservoir in Duluth. When it found it's way into Tischer Creek, over 2,000 fish, primarily Brook Trout, and other aquatic species were killed. Now, in February of 2026, the city is getting an idea of the scale of the problem. “It's like if you have an aquarium. If you put too much chlorine in it, your fish aren't going to survive,” explained Diane Desotelle, a Duluth City Councilor. Desotelle brings a level of deeper understanding to the council on this issue, given her background as a civil engineer who worked in water resource management. Water released was treated with chlorine, at a level safe for human consumption, but toxic to the wildlife in the creek. At the February 23 City Council meeting, she and her fellow councilors voted to approve a settlement with the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). It includes a $12,000 civil penalty, as well as a further $190,000 settlement, which goes to pay for state staff time, as well as what the agencies determined was the dollar amount lost by the killing of so many fish. "The biggest value came from the recreational fishing," Desotelle said, "People drive up here, they get a hotel, they have dinner, they get by fishing equipment, and we call it ecosystem services." A portion of the settlement will also go to pay for education efforts for things like environmental stewardship and sustainable fishing, as well as restoration efforts. The release of the treated water was a mistake Desotelle says, but she thinks the settlement money will be a boon to Tischer. "We had made a mistake. And now we're going to make lemonade because we have projects on this creek. There's a lot of areas that we've been wanting to work on. And so that money is going to go right back into our resource,” she said. The DNR won't be restocking the creek, believing that fish will eventually return, given that Tischer's entire population wasn't wiped out, though that's expected to take a number of years. For the city's part, utility managers detailed to councilors new efforts being taken to prevent such releases in the future. “From the utility standpoint, I think they've learned a ton," Desotelle said. Short term include determining other possible places where chlorine could be released, and developing new procedures for releasing water. The city will partner with state agencies as restoration projects get underway. Possible projects include removal of a low head dam on the creek. Full details on Duluth's settlement with the State can be found below. city settlement Download For Related Stories: Duluth Minnesota DNR Minnesota Pollution Control Agency --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed