Our View/Endorsement: Pick Adatte, Desotelle for Election Day showdown - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Subscribers Only Opinion Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Pick Adatte, Desotelle for Election Day showdown The City Council District 2 race is to replace former Councilor Mike Mayou, who moved out of the district and stepped down at the end of June. By the News Tribune Editorial Board July 29, 2025 at 9:38 AM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Neither is a stranger to City Hall, and both see the need to attract investment and grow Duluth’s tax base. In the Aug. 12 primary for City Council District 2, in eastern and northern Duluth, eligible voters can pick Chris Adatte and Diane Desotelle to advance to an Election Day showdown on Nov. 4. Both are experienced with how the city operates, possess good understandings of pressing issues, and have encouraging ideas for how to make Duluth stronger. ADVERTISEMENT Chris Adatte owns A.G. O’Brien Plumbing and Heating, is a member of both the Duluth Planning Commission and Heritage Preservation Commission, and served on the Public Utilities Commission. Duluth’s inflexible regulatory framework and unwillingness to work as a partner with developers and others ready to invest here are holding our city back. City Hall needs to be more consistent and predictable, he said in a one-on-one interview with members of the News Tribune Editorial Board. Chris Adatte “We have to grow,” Adatte said. “If we have more people paying into the pool, we won’t have to raise taxes all the time. You’re going to have a more robust commercial tax base then and hopefully those (businesses) will have lots of employees who live in homes and buy things here. And if we have more businesses, more restaurants, more stores, more shops, more cuisine options, that’s going to be great for everyone. More people paying taxes means we don’t have to be, ‘Ugh, looks like we have to raise another levy’.” With D.C. hyper focused on cutting waste and the Legislature facing a nearly $6 billion budget deficit, Duluth can’t expect much federal or state assistance with bolstering its local economy. And the needs here are great, Adatte said, including "infrastructure, support for the unhoused, getting Chum funded, funding more Stepping On Up initiatives (to address homelessness, and) getting Union Gospel that big remodel they want. We need more resources to take care of these folks. I’m not an economist, but the only way I see us getting more resources is getting more people to move to town to build here.” Diane Desotelle also isn’t an economist. Instead, she’s a retired city engineer, educator, and was Duluth’s first natural-resources coordinator. In 2006, she helped develop a new land-use plan, a document that hadn’t been updated by the city since about 1950. In addition, working for the state, she helped lead the revitalization of the St. Louis River, including habitat restoration and sediment cleanup. Desotelle is DFL-endorsed. Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle “I know the city really well,” she said in a separate interview. “I understand the infrastructure as a civil engineer and as a water-resource person. I’m a hydraulic engineer, so I understand the importance of the economy and how we need to make sure that infrastructure gets up to date and that we work on encouraging local investment and attracting new markets. I understand the best places to build and build our economy through in-fill and development.” A volunteer for Chum and Stepping On Up, “Housing is really important to me,” Desotelle said. She also has been active with improving food systems, ensuring that vegetables and other healthy foods are available to all. “I know how government works. I understand the complicated parts of it and the tedious parts of it and the importance of talking to everybody to make good decisions after learning from each other,” she said. “I have the experience. I have the understanding, and I have the knowledge of how to work with folks to get things done. I’m a doer.” ADVERTISEMENT The City Council District 2 race is to replace former Councilor Mike Mayou, who moved out of the district and stepped down at the end of June. Also on the primary ballot is Pierre Tournier, an actuary working in the insurance industry. READ MORE IN OPINION Incumbent's View: Let's renew the spirit that built Minnesota 8h ago Candidate's View: It's time we put people over profit 8h ago Editorial cartoon for Monday, Oct. 5, 2026 12h ago Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 1d ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 1d ago Editorial cartoon for Sunday, Oct. 4, 2026 1d ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags OUR VIEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ELECTION 2025 By the News Tribune Editorial Board “Our View” editorials in the News Tribune are the opinion of the newspaper as determined by its Editorial Board. Current board members are Publisher Neal Ronquist, Editorial Page Editor Chuck Frederick, and Employee Representative Kris Vereecken. Listen to this article What To Read Next Columns Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 2d ago &#183; By Richard E. Pierce Subscribers Only Cartoons Editorial cartoon for Saturday, Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Joe Heller Columns Candidate's View: Experience ensures northern voices will be heard in St. Paul 3d ago &#183; By Aaron Kania ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.