US House GOP delays seating Rep.-elect Grijalva, potential deciding vote on Epstein petition &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 23:31 republished DC Bureau US House GOP delays seating Rep.-elect Grijalva, potential deciding vote on Epstein petition By Shauneen Miranda - October 8, 2025 11:31 pm Adelita Grijalva speaks to the media during a primary election-night party at El Casino Ballroom in South Tucson, Arizona, on July 15, 2025. Grijalva, the Pima County supervisor, won a special election for the state's 7th District seat vacated by the death of her father, longtime U.S. Rep. Raúl Grijalva. (Photo by Rebecca Noble/Getty Images) WASHINGTON — U.S. House Democrats failed again Wednesday to force Speaker Mike Johnson to swear in Rep.-elect Adelita Grijalva . Johnson has said he’s holding off on swearing in Grijalva — an Arizona Democrat elected in September to fill the seat of her father, Raúl Grijalva, who died in March — until he brings the House back into session, which he says will happen as soon as Senate Democrats vote to reopen the government. But Democrats have accused Johnson of delaying Grijalva’s swearing-in to stall a vote on the Department of Justice’s release of files regarding the late sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. The Louisiana Republican has denied that accusation. Grijalva has vowed to be the 218th and final signature needed on a bipartisan petition to force a vote on the measure. Rep. Greg Stanton of Arizona led his Democratic colleagues in trying to gain recognition on the House floor to get Grijalva sworn in Wednesday. But GOP Rep. Russ Fulcher of Idaho, presiding over the House during its pro forma session, quickly gaveled out and did not recognize the Democrats. Several Democratic House leaders joined Stanton on the floor, including Minority Whip Katherine Clark of Massachusetts, the chair and vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus, Pete Aguilar and Ted Lieu of California, and Arizona’s Rep. Yassamin Ansari, the Democratic freshman class president. “That’s undemocratic,” Stanton shouted after the group failed to be recognized. The attempt followed a similar failed effort by Rep. Jim McGovern to be recognized in the House during its Monday pro forma session. Johnson blames shutdown Johnson has received flak from Democrats for having sworn in two of his own party’s members during a pro forma session earlier this year, including Reps. Jimmy Patronis and Randy Fine of Florida. “Speaker Johnson needs to stop dragging his feet and follow the same precedent he set in swearing in his Republican colleagues earlier this year,” Grijalva said in a statement. “If he would simply give me a date and time, I will be there,” she said. Wednesday marked the eighth day of the government shutdown , as dueling GOP and Democratic stopgap bills in the Senate failed to advance yet again. “We will swear in Rep.-Elect Grijalva as soon as the House returns to Session when Chuck Schumer, Mark Kelly and (Ruben) Gallego decide to open up the Government,” a spokesperson for Johnson’s office said Wednesday prior to Democrats’ latest attempt, referencing the respective Senate minority leader from New York and Arizona’s two Democratic senators. “It is custom practice in the House to swear in members when the chamber is in session,” the spokesperson said. A day prior, Johnson had told reporters “we will swear her in when everybody gets back, it’s a ceremonial duty,” adding: “Look, we’ll schedule it, I guess, as soon as she wants.” X Republish Post US House GOP delays seating Rep.-elect Grijalva, potential deciding vote on Epstein petition by Shauneen Miranda, Minnesota Reformer October 8, 2025 US House GOP delays seating Rep.-elect Grijalva, potential deciding vote on Epstein petition by Shauneen Miranda, Minnesota Reformer October 8, 2025 WASHINGTON — U.S. House Democrats failed again Wednesday to force Speaker Mike Johnson to swear in Rep.-elect Adelita Grijalva . Johnson has said he’s holding off on swearing in Grijalva — an Arizona Democrat elected in September to fill the seat of her father, Raúl Grijalva, who died in March — until he brings the House back into session, which he says will happen as soon as Senate Democrats vote to reopen the government. But Democrats have accused Johnson of delaying Grijalva’s swearing-in to stall a vote on the Department of Justice’s release of files regarding the late sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. The Louisiana Republican has denied that accusation. Grijalva has vowed to be the 218th and final signature needed on a bipartisan petition to force a vote on the measure. Rep. Greg Stanton of Arizona led his Democratic colleagues in trying to gain recognition on the House floor to get Grijalva sworn in Wednesday. But GOP Rep. Russ Fulcher of Idaho, presiding over the House during its pro forma session, quickly gaveled out and did not recognize the Democrats. Several Democratic House leaders joined Stanton on the floor, including Minority Whip Katherine Clark of Massachusetts, the chair and vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus, Pete Aguilar and Ted Lieu of California, and Arizona’s Rep. Yassamin Ansari, the Democratic freshman class president. “That’s undemocratic,” Stanton shouted after the group failed to be recognized. The attempt followed a similar failed effort by Rep. Jim McGovern to be recognized in the House during its Monday pro forma session. Johnson blames shutdown Johnson has received flak from Democrats for having sworn in two of his own party’s members during a pro forma session earlier this year, including Reps. Jimmy Patronis and Randy Fine of Florida. “Speaker Johnson needs to stop dragging his feet and follow the same precedent he set in swearing in his Republican colleagues earlier this year,” Grijalva said in a statement. “If he would simply give me a date and time, I will be there,” she said. Wednesday marked the eighth day of the government shutdown , as dueling GOP and Democratic stopgap bills in the Senate failed to advance yet again. “We will swear in Rep.-Elect Grijalva as soon as the House returns to Session when Chuck Schumer, Mark Kelly and (Ruben) Gallego decide to open up the Government,” a spokesperson for Johnson’s office said Wednesday prior to Democrats’ latest attempt, referencing the respective Senate minority leader from New York and Arizona’s two Democratic senators. “It is custom practice in the House to swear in members when the chamber is in session,” the spokesperson said. A day prior, Johnson had told reporters “we will swear her in when everybody gets back, it’s a ceremonial duty,” adding: “Look, we’ll schedule it, I guess, as soon as she wants.” Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Shauneen Miranda Shauneen Miranda is a reporter for States Newsroom’s Washington bureau. An alumna of the University of Maryland, she previously covered breaking news for Axios. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Worries grow about disinformation, false claims and even violence as election nears by Jennifer Shutt October 28, 2024 Biden asks the nation for unity, promises security review after Trump shooting by Ariana Figueroa July 14, 2024 Presidential immunity extends to some official acts, Supreme Court rules in Trump case by Ashley Murray and Jacob Fischler July 1, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.