Itasca County leaders about to begin process of creating 10-year economic development strategic plan - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Itasca County leaders about to begin process of creating 10-year economic development strategic plan By WDIO --> Itasca County leaders working on an economic development plan Working towards a 10-year economic development strategic plan in Itasca County. Itasca County and regional partners announced the launch of a year-long planning process to create a 10-year economic development strategic plan for the county and surrounding region. The work will be conducted in partnership with St. Louis County, Aitkin County, the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe, and Minnesota Power, and other regional stakeholders. While the plan will center on Itasca County’s economic future, it will draw on stakeholders from neighboring counties from the outset. This is an approach that the partners believe is the first of its kind. “What makes this effort innovative is partnership and trust,” said Itasca County Commissioner John Johnson. “Instead of competing with each other, this effort recognizes that, as regional partners, we can’t succeed without each other. A plan such as this has never been attempted at the county level, and we are very excited to see it come to fruition.” Itasca County and the surrounding region have absorbed repeated economic shocks over the years. Natural disasters such as severe storms and wildfires have sent shockwaves through the area, while the County and its partners are already weathering the impacts of the gradual transition of Minnesota Power’s Clay Boswell Energy Center away from coal. That transition brings long-term opportunity, but short-term uncertainty for workers and local governments. The resulting 10-year plan will target greater resilience across the regional economy. One goal the partners share is to couple a focus on legacy industries such as timber, mining, manufacturing, tourism, and energy, with putting energy behind innovation and attracting emerging industries to the area as well. In August, the effort will hold a kick-off meeting, which will begin a 12-month process of stakeholder input, research, public engagement, and feedback. At the conclusion of that 12-month process, the goal is to have a report that can be approved by the Itasca County Board, followed by a two-year initial implementation period. Itasca County anticipates seeking outside funding to support the creation of an Economic Resiliency Coordinator position on its staff, intended to carry out the vision identified by this process. “This won’t be another plan that looks nice sitting on the shelf. From the outset, we have a vision and timeline for implementation,” Johnson added. The planning process will be supported by an advisory group comprised of County Commissioners from Itasca and surrounding counties, regional economic development professionals and subject matter experts from various industries, including public utilities, timber, mining, tourism, and manufacturing. Individuals involved in new and emerging industries will also be consulted. “This marks an exciting new chapter for our community,” said Representative Spencer Igo, whose district includes parts of Itasca and St. Louis Counties. “Lasting success is built through collaboration, and this strategic planning process will bring together our schools, local governments, businesses, and residents to help shape a shared vision for the future. I look forward to its findings and to building a roadmap for generations to come.” In preparation for the associated costs of the plan, the coalition secured grant funding from the Blandin Foundation, Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board (IRRRB), and Minnesota Power. This will be paired with funds appropriated by the Itasca County Board of Commissioners from the County’s Tourism and Economic Development fund. These parties’ involvement has provided the funding and administrative support necessary for the plan’s implementation and emphasizes the unified approach behind this effort. A kickoff meeting for the effort will be held on August 19, 2026, in Grand Rapids. For Related Stories: Economic Development Itasca County --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed