Honeywell and other companies want exemptions to Amara’s Law banning &#039;forever chemicals&#039; &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 7:00 News Story Energy & Environment Government & Politics Honeywell and other companies want exemptions to Amara’s Law banning &#8216;forever chemicals' By Deena Winter - March 12, 2024 7:00 am Amara Strande testifies before a House committee Jan. 31 in support of a bill that would prohibit PFAS in children's products. Strande died months later, before a PFAS ban passed the Legislature and was named after her. Photo by Andrew VonBank, Minnesota House Information Office. Big companies like Honeywell, Honda and Polaris will seek an exemption from a sweeping new Minnesota ban on products containing “forever chemicals.” Beginning next year, a Minnesota law bans all non-essential uses of the chemicals — per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or PFAS — in 11 product categories. The following year, companies must disclose the chemicals’ presence in products. The law takes full effect in 2032, when all use of the chemicals will be banned in products unless the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency deems their use to be “currently unavoidable” — which is defined as “essential for health, safety, or the functioning of society and for which alternatives are not reasonably available.” Honeywell and other companies that have indicated they’ll seek an exemption say the chemical ban will keep them from producing batteries and energy efficiency technologies, which help meet other Minnesota environmental goals, like ambitious carbon reductions. The emerging clash — which is sure to intensify as the ban becomes imminent and drives up compliance costs — will play out at the MPCA, which is in the early stages of adopting rules that will serve as the bricks and mortar of the Legislature’s PFAS architecture. The law, known as Amara’s Law, is named after Amara Strande , a 20-year-old Woodbury woman who died of a rare form of liver cancer after spending her final months lobbying the 2023 Legislature to strictly regulate the toxic, man-made chemicals. She grew up near the Maplewood headquarters of 3M, which has made the chemicals since the 1950s. PFAS are used in numerous products because they’re highly resistant to heat, oil, stains, grease and water — which is also why they linger in the environment for decades. They have spread all over the planet, and can be found in the blood of nearly all people, where they’ve been linked to low fertility, birth defects, suppression of the immune system, thyroid disease and various cancers. Next year, the chemicals will be prohibited in carpets or rugs, cleaning products, cookware, cosmetics, dental floss, fabric treatments, children’s products, menstruation products, textile furnishings, ski wax and upholstered furniture. (Used products are exempt.) Minnesota is the first state to ban the chemicals in menstrual products, cleaning ingredients, cookware and dental floss, according to Safer States, a national alliance of environmental health organizations. Use of the chemicals in firefighting foam and food packaging is banned elsewhere in state law. During the rulemaking’s 90-day public comment period — which ended March 1 — numerous companies and trade groups filed comments indicating they’ll seek exemptions, including: Honda; the Battery Association of Japan; the Rechargeable Battery Association; RTX Corporation, the world's largest aerospace and defense company; the Aerospace Industries Association; the Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association; Intel Corp.; Polaris Industries Inc.; Hitachi Energy; the American Watch Association; the Semiconductor Industry Association; Panasonic; Whirlpool; the American Chemistry Council; and numerous Japanese companies and trade groups. Honeywell submitted comments saying more than 2,000 parts in its aerospace and defense facilities alone could be affected by the law. The law could also ban the company’s pharmaceutical packaging materials. Honeywell began lobbying state officials to exempt some of its products even as lawmakers were debating the legislation last year, according to internal MPCA documents obtained by the Reformer through a public records request. Honeywell is a North Carolina–based Fortune 100 company that invents and manufactures safety, security and energy technologies and employs 1,870 people at five Minnesota facilities. Three sites develop and manufacture equipment and materials for the aviation, space and defense sectors. The company says its safety systems are used in 90% of all global aircraft and 80% of all commercial satellites. Two additional Minnesota sites produce a variety of switches; safety shut-off valves; flow meters; flame detectors; and other smart energy and thermal solution materials to protect people working in chemical and manufacturing plants. Honeywell says the chemicals are needed to make critical components in semiconductors, automotive, medical, petrochemical and crude oil sectors. The company also makes various fluorinated gases, or F-gases, including hydrofluoroolefins, or HFOs, which are part of the PFAS family. They’re used as refrigerants, propellants, heating, ventilation and air conditioning and foam blowing agents. In 2012, Honeywell launched a line of chemical refrigerants called Solstice to cool vehicles, buildings and supermarket refrigerators. The refrigerants were hailed as a greener alternative to ozone-depleting chemicals like hydrofluorocarbons because they quickly break down in the atmosphere. Honeywell says every vehicle manufacturer in Europe, Turkey, the United Kingdom, South Korea, Canada and the U.S. now uses Solstice. But a recent study found they can create a gas that lingers in the atmosphere for 270 years and has a global warming potential 14,800 times worse than carbon dioxide, although the amount of the gas is minute so they’re still better than chemicals of the past, according to reporting by Science magazine. The European Union plans to ban most HFOs over the next decade, saying they release PFAS. Honeywell says its HFOs are a “vital part of the toolkit to ensure we can install the most sustainable heating and cooling,” calling them “nontoxic, non-bio accumulative and nonpersistent and already regulated by the EPA.” The company said HFO technology has helped avoid the potential release of the equivalent of more than 326 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere — the equivalent of removing the carbon emissions from nearly 70 million gasoline-powered passenger vehicles annually. Last spring, Honeywell CEO Darius Adamczyk wrote Gov. Tim Walz a letter saying the chemical ban includes “critical materials to help meet the world’s and Minnesota’s climate goals.” He asked Walz to support amending the legislation to allow Honeywell to continue using the “vital materials,” calling HFOs a “critical sustainability solution.” Honeywell supported the climate bill Walz signed earlier in the year to work toward carbon-free electricity by 2040. Adamczyk called HFOs “key enablers” to achieve energy efficiency goals in residential and commercial building codes. Days later, Adamczyk requested to speak directly with the governor, documents show, offering a two-hour window on a Monday morning. It’s not clear whether he took the call, but Walz signed Amara’s Law on May 24. The following month, Honeywell officials proposed a series of “invitation-only, no press” policy roundtable meetings with state, federal, industry and third parties such as the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce, emails show. MPCA emails said Senate President Bobby Joe Champion and Senate Majority Leader Kari Dziedzic supported the roundtable meetings. By August, however, some MPCA officials were becoming uncomfortable with Honeywell’s proposed roundtable, as the goal became clear: exempt HFOs from the ban. “I am feeling more and more uncomfortable with the agency participating actively in this type of forum,” Tom Johnson of MPCA wrote in an email to MPCA Commissioner Katrina Kessler. Johnson asked whether the agency should back out of a scheduled planning meeting and “talk to Dziedzic/Champion about the reasons.” Kessler replied that she would strongly advise that Honeywell be reminded that the law set out a clear process for implementing the ban, including transparent, inclusive engagement and rulemaking. A Honeywell spokesperson said company officials “briefly and informally” discussed setting up the roundtable meetings, but the state instead appointed working groups, as is customary, with representation from several companies, including Honeywell, as well as environmental groups and others. A Honeywell spokesperson said the company fully supports the state’s effort to protect Minnesotans from exposure to hazardous chemicals, but urges the state to issue regulations that are neither overly broad nor overly restrictive — particularly FDA-approved or EPA-approved materials, like HFOs, that Honeywell says are safe when used as intended. The chemicals, the company says, are environmentally beneficial and essential to the economy. Public webinars and additional public comment periods will be held before the rules are expected to be finalized in 2026. X Republish Post Honeywell and other companies want exemptions to Amara’s Law banning &#8216;forever chemicals' by Deena Winter, Minnesota Reformer March 12, 2024 Honeywell and other companies want exemptions to Amara’s Law banning &#8216;forever chemicals' by Deena Winter, Minnesota Reformer March 12, 2024 Big companies like Honeywell, Honda and Polaris will seek an exemption from a sweeping new Minnesota ban on products containing “forever chemicals.” Beginning next year, a Minnesota law bans all non-essential uses of the chemicals — per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or PFAS — in 11 product categories. The following year, companies must disclose the chemicals’ presence in products. The law takes full effect in 2032, when all use of the chemicals will be banned in products unless the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency deems their use to be “currently unavoidable” — which is defined as “essential for health, safety, or the functioning of society and for which alternatives are not reasonably available.” Honeywell and other companies that have indicated they’ll seek an exemption say the chemical ban will keep them from producing batteries and energy efficiency technologies, which help meet other Minnesota environmental goals, like ambitious carbon reductions. The emerging clash — which is sure to intensify as the ban becomes imminent and drives up compliance costs — will play out at the MPCA, which is in the early stages of adopting rules that will serve as the bricks and mortar of the Legislature’s PFAS architecture. The law, known as Amara’s Law, is named after Amara Strande , a 20-year-old Woodbury woman who died of a rare form of liver cancer after spending her final months lobbying the 2023 Legislature to strictly regulate the toxic, man-made chemicals. She grew up near the Maplewood headquarters of 3M, which has made the chemicals since the 1950s. PFAS are used in numerous products because they’re highly resistant to heat, oil, stains, grease and water — which is also why they linger in the environment for decades. They have spread all over the planet, and can be found in the blood of nearly all people, where they’ve been linked to low fertility, birth defects, suppression of the immune system, thyroid disease and various cancers. Next year, the chemicals will be prohibited in carpets or rugs, cleaning products, cookware, cosmetics, dental floss, fabric treatments, children’s products, menstruation products, textile furnishings, ski wax and upholstered furniture. (Used products are exempt.) Minnesota is the first state to ban the chemicals in menstrual products, cleaning ingredients, cookware and dental floss, according to Safer States, a national alliance of environmental health organizations. Use of the chemicals in firefighting foam and food packaging is banned elsewhere in state law. During the rulemaking’s 90-day public comment period — which ended March 1 — numerous companies and trade groups filed comments indicating they’ll seek exemptions, including: Honda; the Battery Association of Japan; the Rechargeable Battery Association; RTX Corporation, the world's largest aerospace and defense company; the Aerospace Industries Association; the Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association; Intel Corp.; Polaris Industries Inc.; Hitachi Energy; the American Watch Association; the Semiconductor Industry Association; Panasonic; Whirlpool; the American Chemistry Council; and numerous Japanese companies and trade groups. Honeywell submitted comments saying more than 2,000 parts in its aerospace and defense facilities alone could be affected by the law. The law could also ban the company’s pharmaceutical packaging materials. Honeywell began lobbying state officials to exempt some of its products even as lawmakers were debating the legislation last year, according to internal MPCA documents obtained by the Reformer through a public records request. Honeywell is a North Carolina–based Fortune 100 company that invents and manufactures safety, security and energy technologies and employs 1,870 people at five Minnesota facilities. Three sites develop and manufacture equipment and materials for the aviation, space and defense sectors. The company says its safety systems are used in 90% of all global aircraft and 80% of all commercial satellites. Two additional Minnesota sites produce a variety of switches; safety shut-off valves; flow meters; flame detectors; and other smart energy and thermal solution materials to protect people working in chemical and manufacturing plants. Honeywell says the chemicals are needed to make critical components in semiconductors, automotive, medical, petrochemical and crude oil sectors. The company also makes various fluorinated gases, or F-gases, including hydrofluoroolefins, or HFOs, which are part of the PFAS family. They’re used as refrigerants, propellants, heating, ventilation and air conditioning and foam blowing agents. In 2012, Honeywell launched a line of chemical refrigerants called Solstice to cool vehicles, buildings and supermarket refrigerators. The refrigerants were hailed as a greener alternative to ozone-depleting chemicals like hydrofluorocarbons because they quickly break down in the atmosphere. Honeywell says every vehicle manufacturer in Europe, Turkey, the United Kingdom, South Korea, Canada and the U.S. now uses Solstice. But a recent study found they can create a gas that lingers in the atmosphere for 270 years and has a global warming potential 14,800 times worse than carbon dioxide, although the amount of the gas is minute so they’re still better than chemicals of the past, according to reporting by Science magazine. The European Union plans to ban most HFOs over the next decade, saying they release PFAS. Honeywell says its HFOs are a “vital part of the toolkit to ensure we can install the most sustainable heating and cooling,” calling them “nontoxic, non-bio accumulative and nonpersistent and already regulated by the EPA.” The company said HFO technology has helped avoid the potential release of the equivalent of more than 326 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere — the equivalent of removing the carbon emissions from nearly 70 million gasoline-powered passenger vehicles annually. Last spring, Honeywell CEO Darius Adamczyk wrote Gov. Tim Walz a letter saying the chemical ban includes “critical materials to help meet the world’s and Minnesota’s climate goals.” He asked Walz to support amending the legislation to allow Honeywell to continue using the “vital materials,” calling HFOs a “critical sustainability solution.” Honeywell supported the climate bill Walz signed earlier in the year to work toward carbon-free electricity by 2040. Adamczyk called HFOs “key enablers” to achieve energy efficiency goals in residential and commercial building codes. Days later, Adamczyk requested to speak directly with the governor, documents show, offering a two-hour window on a Monday morning. It’s not clear whether he took the call, but Walz signed Amara’s Law on May 24. The following month, Honeywell officials proposed a series of “invitation-only, no press” policy roundtable meetings with state, federal, industry and third parties such as the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce, emails show. MPCA emails said Senate President Bobby Joe Champion and Senate Majority Leader Kari Dziedzic supported the roundtable meetings. By August, however, some MPCA officials were becoming uncomfortable with Honeywell’s proposed roundtable, as the goal became clear: exempt HFOs from the ban. “I am feeling more and more uncomfortable with the agency participating actively in this type of forum,” Tom Johnson of MPCA wrote in an email to MPCA Commissioner Katrina Kessler. Johnson asked whether the agency should back out of a scheduled planning meeting and “talk to Dziedzic/Champion about the reasons.” Kessler replied that she would strongly advise that Honeywell be reminded that the law set out a clear process for implementing the ban, including transparent, inclusive engagement and rulemaking. A Honeywell spokesperson said company officials “briefly and informally” discussed setting up the roundtable meetings, but the state instead appointed working groups, as is customary, with representation from several companies, including Honeywell, as well as environmental groups and others. A Honeywell spokesperson said the company fully supports the state’s effort to protect Minnesotans from exposure to hazardous chemicals, but urges the state to issue regulations that are neither overly broad nor overly restrictive — particularly FDA-approved or EPA-approved materials, like HFOs, that Honeywell says are safe when used as intended. The chemicals, the company says, are environmentally beneficial and essential to the economy. Public webinars and additional public comment periods will be held before the rules are expected to be finalized in 2026. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Deena Winter Deena Winter has covered local and state government in four states over the past three decades, with stints at the Bismarck Tribune in North Dakota, as a correspondent for the Denver Post, city hall reporter in Lincoln, Nebraska, and regional editor for Southwest News in the western Minneapolis suburbs. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Gov. Tim Walz signs executive order banning nonferrous mining near Boundary Waters by J. Patrick Coolican and Max Nesterak August 18, 2026 Trump’s first EPA promised to crack down on &#8216;forever chemicals.' His second EPA Is pulling back. by Anna Clark July 2, 2025 Is burning wood or trash ‘carbon free’? The utilities want you to think so by Madison McVan July 23, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.