Twin Ports mayors congratulate LGBTQ+ community for standing strong - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Twin Ports mayors congratulate LGBTQ+ community for standing strong By WDIO --> Mayors congratulate Duluth-Superior Pride for standing strong Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team The annual Mayors' Reception takes place at the Historic Union Depot, historically the center of the community, and a highly visible place to kick off Duluth-Superior Pride. The event has been going on for about two decades. "It's a tradition at this point," said Pride co-chair Kristy Johnson, hosting a rainbow necklace and carrying a chihuahua mix. "It brings the mayors and the community and everyone together. It's something that shows that the city is as excited about Pride as we are." Local leaders mingled with community members, eating tiny appetizers before both Twin Ports mayors spoke. In his speech, Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert said Duluth tried to adopt its first-ever resolution supporting Pride all the way back in 2001 &#8211; but it was vetoed. "That happened again in 2002 and in 2003," he said, standing under a rainbow arch. "But in 2003, the city council at that time overrode the veto to adopt the first-ever resolution in support of Pride." Then, in 2005, Reinert said then-mayor Herb Bergson began the Mayors' Reception. Superior Mayor Jim Paine said he's proud of the Twin Ports Pride, of course, but he had to hype up his hometown. "For decades. Decades. Superior, Wisconsin was the home of a pride festival that was not replicated anywhere in the Upper Midwest," he said. "It is the first pride festival in Wisconsin. It is the first pride festival in the Twin Ports." He encouraged advocates to take the few days of Pride to rest and recognize their accomplishments. "When you look in the news or even open comment sections about this event, hate is not shy in the Twin Ports," he said. "But neither are you." He said now, the community gets to recognize and celebrate that people had to lay down their lives for LGBTQ+ children to grow up safe, attend prom and be out in public with their "real, true high school sweethearts." Pride then presented two awards to outstanding members of the community, Fox 21 news anchor Dan Hanger and Main Club founder Bob Jansen. After receiving his award and thanking the crowd, the committee and both mayors, Jansen announced that he was single. For Related Stories: Alex Haddon Duluth LGBTQ+ Pride Superior Twin Ports --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed