Minneapolis educators hit the picket line for the second day Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in EDUCATION Minneapolis educators hit the picket line for the second day. “Stability on the Northside is a question of racial justice,” one striking teacher said. On a frigid morning, educational support professionals made the case for the strike. “We aren’t being heard, and so we have to do something about it,” said Shayla Johnson, an associate educator for pre-kindergarteners. by Becky Z. Dernbach March 9, 2022 Updated March 11, 2022 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Lucy Laney educators walked the picket line on the second day of the Minneapolis educator strike. Credit: Ben Hovland | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Update: Wednesday, March 9, 10:20 a.m. On Wednesday morning, upbeat music blasted out of speakers while educators marched up and down the sidewalk outside Lucy Craft Laney School. “Fight the powers that be!” one educator sang along. Two educators, Shayla Johnson and Angelina Momanyi took a moment to catch up on the picket line. Momanyi works at North High School, but spent last year at Lucy Laney, where Johnson is an associate educator for pre-kindergarteners. “We aren’t being heard, and so we have to do something about it,” Johnson said. Minnesota school workers push Legislature to solve ‘staffing crisis’ with $25-an-hour minimum wage. ‘We shouldn’t have to separate being Black from our profession’: A Minneapolis teacher weighs the cost of battling the white education hierarchy—and her own union. Why don’t Minnesota schools ever seem to have enough money? We asked House education-committee chair Jim Davnie how we got here and how to fix it. Minneapolis teachers and district reach tentative deal to end strike after three weeks. Agreement includes raises, class-size caps, mental-health spending—and a lot of unfinished business. Minneapolis school board chair Kim Ellison expects a deal with educators Thursday night or Friday morning to end a 13-day strike. Minneapolis Public Schools and educators resume mediation Thursday to resolve stalled contract talks. Educators say they’re hopeful they can settle their differences today. As Minneapolis educators’ strike stretches on, even parents and kids who support striking teachers long to return to school. What’s the biggest obstacle to ending the Minneapolis teachers strike? The district says it’s increased spending requests for mental-health services. Strikeblog Week 3: Minneapolis educators say the district is getting close to an acceptable contract offer. The district says it’s made a final offer to support staff. The Minneapolis teachers strike continues. Food service workers reach tentative contract agreement with Minneapolis Public Schools, averting a strike planned for March 28 An open gym, Legos, a church drop-in center, and a sit-in at district headquarters: how North High students are staying busy during the Minneapolis educator strike Strikeblog Week Two: Striking educators and Minneapolis Public Schools describe (limited, halting) progress in contract negotiations. Minneapolis Public Schools outline strike’s effects on school calendar Teachers in Minneapolis’ adult English literacy and GED program earn less than their K–12 counterparts. They say the low pay is causing an “exodus” of teachers and reducing available classes. Kim Ellison, the Minneapolis school board chair, shares her approach to union negotiations Minneapolis Public Schools and educators union resumed talks for first time in two days—and broke them off 90 minutes later. Striking Minneapolis educators rallied at the Capitol, called for education funding, and sang “Purple Rain.” Some non-unionized educators, and their students, joined them. Minneapolis teacher salaries have fallen behind pay in other big Minnesota districts, nonpartisan researcher says. Strikeblog Day Four: Negotiations continue, educators canvass, and district outlines school makeup day policy. Classroom duties are piling up. Mental health needs are skyrocketing. But pay hasn't budged. Why Minneapolis and St. Paul educational assistants are ready to strike. Both want to see higher wages for educational support professionals like Johnson, who says she earned $32,000 last year working two jobs. “People can’t survive on the kind of wages that they’re being paid,” Momanyi said. The pair also want to see the district expend more effort to recruit and retain educators of color. Both praised their own building leadership for making deliberate choices about staffing. “Those questions about what kind of staff are in the building and what does it mean to have stability on the Northside is a question of race and racial justice,” Momanyi said. They said they’d seen an outpouring of support on the picket line from Laney and North High families, who have developed strong relationships with educators of color. “They build relationships with people that look like them, and they trust us,” Johnson said. For students, she added, “You have to trust first, then we learn.” read all the latest strike updates Minneapolis teacher salaries have fallen behind pay in other big Minnesota districts, nonpartisan researcher says. Striking Minneapolis educators rallied at the Capitol, called for education funding, and sang “Purple Rain.” Some non-unionized educators, and their students, joined them. Minneapolis Public Schools and educators union resumed talks for first time in two days—and broke them off 90 minutes later. Strikeblog! All the latest news on the Minneapolis teacher strike: rallies, negotiations, and another day without classes Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Minneapolis educator strike , Minneapolis Public Schools Becky Z. Dernbach bdernbach@sahanjournal.com x Becky Z. Dernbach is the education reporter for Sahan Journal. Becky graduated from Carleton College in 2008, just in time for the economy to crash. She worked many jobs before going into journalism, including... More by Becky Z. Dernbach Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close