The Transformative Power of the Affordable Connectivity Program Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Sponsored Content Learn More Advertiser content: This content was commissioned and paid for by Comcast. The news and editorial staff of Sahan Journal had no role in the creation or production of this story. The Transformative Power of the Affordable Connectivity Program Sponsored content by Comcast September 4, 2023 September 4, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook This week, the federal government’s Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) announced a new milestone. Launched nearly two years ago, it has now connected more than 20 million households to the Internet. This is a remarkable achievement and we at Comcast are proud to participate in the program. The ACP provides families with a $30/month benefit, $75/month on Tribal lands, toward their Internet bill. When applied to Comcast’s Internet Essentials or Internet Essentials Plus tiers, it makes connectivity to the Internet effectively free. However, we still face the challenge of getting millions more ACP-eligible households to enroll. Great progress is being made to close the digital divide, but too many families, in communities across the nation, have yet to take advantage of this once-in-a-generation opportunity. Since day one, Comcast has been working to raise awareness about the ACP, and we are investing in hundreds of non-profit partners because closing that divide cannot be achieved without collaboration. For this reason, we are supporting Digital Navigators – people who teach digital skills at the neighborhood level – because we know they are key to the trust-building necessary for success. A great example of that kind of partnership is our commitment as a founding partner of the Online For All campaign with Civic Nation and the U.S. Department of Education. Together with other companies and the federal government, this coalition is working aggressively to enroll even more eligible Americans in the ACP. From our headquarters in Philadelphia , to Houston , Portland , Atlanta , and beyond, I have personally met with dozens and dozens of parents, students, seniors, veterans, and entrepreneurs who have had their lives transformed by an Internet connection, especially one that is home-based. A high school student who found scholarships to pay for college. A single mother who completed a job training program. A senior who now schedules her own telemedicine appointments from the comfort of home. What do these three people have in common? They were all connected to the Internet because of the ACP. Here are their stories: Llulisa – Philadelphia, PA As a high-school student who was not connected to the Internet at home, Llulisa had to get to school early or stay late to use the WiFi to do her homework. During the pandemic, she worried she might not be able to stay on track and keep her grades up so she could apply to college. Fortunately, Llulisa’s brother heard about Comcast’s Internet Essentials program at a local community center and helped their mom sign up for Internet service at home. The family has since enrolled in the ACP and their home Internet service is now fully covered by the benefit. Today, Llulisa is proud to be the first person in her family to go to college, and she is well on her way to fulfilling her dream of becoming an immigration lawyer. Alisha – Eastern Shore, MD As a single mother of two children, Alisha is not only using the Internet to help her sons with schoolwork and college applications, but she’s also using it to pursue her own career growth. Alisha recently completed a healthcare certification course with our partners at Goodwill, in part by using her home Internet connection. Alisha credits the ACP with helping her more effectively juggle raising her children, working, and volunteering in her local community. Not only has the ACP benefited her, but it also helped her son, who is now enrolled at Delaware State University. In her words, “the Internet is as essential as the air we breathe.” Having it at home has helped make a big difference for her and her family. Gayla – Houston, TX During a holiday event in Houston, Gayla received a free laptop from Comcast. Instead of keeping it for herself, however, she gave it to her 87-year-old mother and helped her enroll in the ACP. With her new computer and Internet connection, Gayla’s mother can now participate in telemedicine appointments without having to spend hours navigating public transportation to get across town and back. In addition, she can stay in better contact with friends and family from the comfort of her home, which brings her joy every day. These three individuals are just a few of the millions of students, families, and others who have been positively impacted by the ACP. Whether it’s improving economic mobility through education, accessing telehealth and telemedicine, or simply enjoying all the news, weather, and entertainment the Internet puts at our fingertips, it’s undeniable that having the Internet at home, a computer, and the skills to use it are truly life changing. Unfortunately, the success of the ACP is causing an emerging dilemma. The $14 billion allocated to the FCC to provide vouchers to eligible households is likely to be exhausted early next year. Congress and the Biden Administration must work together to ensure that the ACP is fully funded – so Llulisa, Alisha, Gayla, and tens of millions of Americans aren’t left without affordable Internet when the initial allocation of funding for the program is runs out. As FCC Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel said today, “We’ve made too much progress in helping families get online to turn back now.” By Broderick Johnson: Broderick D. Johnson is Executive Vice President, Public Policy and Executive Vice President, Digital Equity for Comcast Corporation MORE SPONSORED CONTENT BY COMCAST Sponsored Content Comcast helps customers stay connected during storms Comcast became the first Internet Provider to offer a product designed to maintain connectivity when a storm hits, trees are down, or a customer experiences a local outage, with the launch of Storm-Ready WiFi. With the upcoming winter season and potential severe weather impacting the Twin Cities, there has never been a greater need for… Sponsored content by Comcast Sponsored Content Am I eligible for the Affordable Connectivity Program? In the midst of the most challenging days of the COVID-19 pandemic three years ago, many of our society’s most fundamental institutions and services shifted online, including schools, healthcare, and millions of jobs. This laid bare the vital need for every American to get online, and further exposed the digital divide as a chasm between… Sponsored content by Comcast Sponsored Content Are You Aware of the Affordable Connectivity Program? In the midst of the most challenging days of the COVID-19 pandemic three years ago, many of our society’s most fundamental institutions and services shifted online, including schools, healthcare, and millions of jobs. This laid bare the vital need for every American to get online, and further exposed the digital divide as a chasm between… Sponsored content by Comcast Sponsored content by Comcast Comcast has spent more than a decade working to address digital inequities. From connecting people to the Internet; to supporting young, diverse storytellers; to opening doors for the next generation of innovators, creators, and doers, we want everyone to have the skills, resources, and tools they need to succeed in an increasingly digital world. Learn more about Comcast Tagged: Affordable Connectivity Program , internet , online for all Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Gift this article Close Link Copy link