Duluth legislators host District 8 town hall - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth legislators host District 8 town hall By WDIO --> Duluth legislators host District 8 town hall Minnesota legislators gather for a town hall to discuss priorities for the upcoming session goals and respond to community feedback. State Senator Jen McEwen, Representative Liish Kozlowski, and Representative Pete Johnson gathered with Duluth residents at an in-person town hall to discuss legislative priorities and community concerns. Sen. McEwen welcomed attendees, sharing that this was the first in-person town hall since she took office in 2021 due to the pandemic. She said, “As we moved into this session, I was really eager to start switching it over and have some in-person and we'll probably have some online too to make sure that we can maximize the number of people who can participate. I'm really pleased that you came. Welcome.” The town hall began with the legislators sharing the goals they have for this legislative session. Rep. Kozlowski highlighted their committee work on labor, economic development, taxes and housing, saying, “At the session, I am on the Labor Workforce Development and Economic Development Committee with, we're very well represented, I'm also on that with Representative Johnson. And we do really great work around supporting small businesses, to childcare, to be able to work on issues of housing and breaking up anti-trust, supporting our union members, strengthening unions.” Rep. Johnson, a longtime Duluth firefighter, said, “One of the big things that we did last session was trying to backstop those gains that these folks made before I got down to the legislature and protect those massive changes and protections and benefits we did for average working folks.” Housing was named a top priority, with Rep. Kozlowski outlining a $50 million rental assistance bill and efforts to pause evictions. “That would be a $50 million rental assistance that would get its way to every single county in the state, as well as to all of the tribal nations as well,” Kozlowski said. Sen. McEwen discussed infrastructure needs, including water and lead pipe replacement, and emphasized defending labor and environmental laws against federal rollbacks. She said, “"I'm going to be working really hard this session to defend all of those things, to make sure that as we see pushes to weaken our environmental protections, as we see pushes to weaken protections for working people in Minnesota, families working in child care, and in all of the areas that we stand firm and draw a hard line, absolutely not." After expressing their goals, the legislators took questions and concerns written in by community members present or submitted online. On safety at the Capitol, Rep. Johnson said, “I am happy with the steps so far that they've taken as far as having metal detectors, having screenings, some of the other steps with increased number of state troopers and capital security, but I think there's probably some more things that we can do and we'll learn more once we get down there as to how efficient the system that they have in place is going to work.” The lawmakers addressed concerns about federal ICE activity in Minnesota. Sen. McEwen said, “I actually have been advocating for a while that I would like to see our prosecutors, our law enforcement, really start to move forward with issuing arrest warrants when they're warranted and to intervene in a responsible way.” Environmental protection, especially for the Boundary Waters, was another major topic. Sen. McEwen urged residents to contact Gov. Walz about mining permits, saying, “It is more important now than ever for us here in Minnesota to proactively protect our waters to protect our land, which in turn is protecting our people in our communities and our public health and our economies.” On revenue, all three lawmakers supported taxing the wealthy and large corporations to fund public goods. Sen. McEwen said, “I have a bill to tax the people that make over a million dollars, that actually the lower end is like an individual makes $500,000 or a couple of 1 million or more, an extra 2%, and just that bill of loan would raise like over a billion dollars.” Child care access and affordability were also discussed. Rep. Johnson said, “Child care is as valuable to our workforce as roads and as as bridges as all the other things that we require for us to to function as a society.” The town hall closed with advice for community involvement. Rep. Johnson encouraged, “Part of it is just showing up where and when you can right like it looks different for everybody… find those things that you care about because you are the you're the best advocates for those issues.” Sen. McEwen added, “One of the things people have been encouraging people to do and I need to do more of this myself too is to really try to make sure that you know your neighbors… those kind of connections I think make a really big difference in our community going forward especially when we need to organize around all these great issues that the people really are doing.” For Related Stories: Minnesota Senate DECC Duluth Minnesota 8th Congressional District Minnesota House of Representatives --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed