Ohio’s Jim Jordan fails in bid for U.S. House speaker, leaving chamber paralyzed again &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 13:38 News Story DC Bureau Government & Politics Ohio’s Jim Jordan fails in bid for U.S. House speaker, leaving chamber paralyzed again By Jennifer Shutt , Ariana Figueroa and Ashley Murray - October 17, 2023 1:38 pm U.S. Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, walks to the House chamber ahead of a planned vote for Speaker of the House in the House of Representatives at the U.S. Capitol on Oct. 17, 2023 in Washington, D.C. Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images. WASHINGTON — The U.S. House rejected Ohio’s Jim Jordan as a candidate for speaker on Tuesday in the first round of voting, though the chamber was expected to potentially conduct additional votes on Jordan’s bid later in the day. Jordan, co-founder of the far-right Freedom Caucus and one of the lawmakers who bolstered former President Donald Trump’s false claims about the 2020 election, was unable to clinch the votes needed to hold the gavel amid concerns about his agenda and frustrations with his history inside and outside of Congress. The House has now gone two weeks without a speaker. Republican Reps. Don Bacon of Nebraska, Ken Buck of Colorado, Lori Chavez-DeRemer of Oregon, Anthony D’Esposito of New York, Mario Díaz-Balart of Florida, Jake Ellzey of Texas, Andrew Garbarino of New York, Carlos Giménez of Florida, Tony Gonzales of Texas, Kay Granger of Texas, John James of Michigan, Mike Kelly of Pennsylvania, Jen Kiggans of Virginia, Nick LaLota of New York, Doug LaMalfa of California, Mike Lawler of New York, John Rutherford of Florida, Mike Simpson of Idaho, Victoria Spartz of Indiana and Steve Womack of Arkansas, as well as all Democrats, voted against Jordan on the first ballot. ​​Florida Rep. Gus Bilirakis was the only Republican who didn’t vote. House Republican Conference Chair Elise Stefanik, of New York, said in her nomination speech that Jordan is a “patriot” who would “go after corruption and deliver accountability.” “Jim is the voice of the American people who have felt voiceless for far too long,” Stefanik said. “Whether as Judiciary chair, conservative leader, or representative for his constituents in west central Ohio, whether on the wrestling mat or in the committee room, Jim Jordan is strategic, scrappy, tough and principled.” House Democratic Caucus Chair Pete Aguilar, of California, nominated New York Rep. Hakeem Jeffries for speaker, saying he was the clear candidate for anyone who wanted a bipartisan path ahead. “The choice before us is simple, come together on a bipartisan path forward, or take us over the cliff,” Aguilar said. “Abandon the extremism that is preventing us from getting things done, or triple down on division and dysfunction.” “A vote today to make the architect of a nationwide abortion ban, a vocal election denier and an insurrection inside to the speaker of this house would be a terrible message to the country and our allies,” he said. There was no majority of the vote needed to elect a speaker with Jeffries receiving 212 votes and Jordan receiving 200, while other lawmakers got some of the Republican votes. McCarthy ousted two weeks ago The stalemate comes two weeks after eight House Republicans and Democrats voted to remove Kevin McCarthy as speaker about nine months into his tenure. McCarthy had to hold 15 separate votes in January before he was able to become speaker and only after making several agreements behind closed doors with far-right members of the party. After McCarthy announced he wouldn’t try again to become speaker, Louisiana’s Steve Scalise and Jordan announced their bids for the role. Scalise, currently the majority leader, won the first secret ballot nomination vote within the House Republican Conference. But he never scheduled a floor vote and withdrew from the race after just one day. Jordan had said after losing the first nomination vote that he would back Scalise on the floor, but several of his followers refused to back their party’s speaker nominee. House Republicans huddled again Friday to take a second nomination vote for speaker, choosing between Jordan and Georgia’s Austin Scott. Jordan won that nomination vote , but another secret ballot taken afterward showed that more than 50 House Republicans said they wouldn’t support him during a floor vote. That gap dwindled over the weekend and throughout Monday as several Republicans, who said they would never back Jordan during a floor vote, announced public support. Several holdouts remained heading into Tuesday’s floor vote, leaving Jordan short of the roughly 217 votes he would need to become speaker. Those holdouts maintained their opposition throughout the first ballot on Tuesday afternoon. “I’m voting for a good, solid, conservative Republican. That’s the only kind of person I’ll vote for,” Giménez said immediately following the vote. Rep. Dusty Johnson of South Dakota, said he anticipated that Jordan might not have all the votes on the first ballot, but he said he remained hopeful that those GOP holdouts would flip. “A lot of the people who are holding out are very reasonable people,” Johnson said. “It’s my assessment that when people stay at the table that a deal is possible.” Chavez-DeRemer, who voted for McCarthy on the first ballot, said she did so because he was the closest Republican to secure the necessary 217 votes, but that she would “continue to reassess where things stand as this process plays out.” Attempt to expand McHenry powers Pennsylvania GOP Rep. Mike Kelly introduced a resolution Monday night to elect Rep. Patrick McHenry as speaker pro tempore for up to 30 days. Approving that resolution would expand McHenry’s powers beyond what they are as the speaker pro tempore by designation, Kelly said. Under the resolution, McHenry, a North Carolina Republican, would stay in the role until Nov. 17 — the same day government funding is set to expire — or until a new speaker is elected, whichever is first. McHenry has been serving as the speaker pro tempore by McCarthy’s designation under a process put in place to ensure continuity of government following the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Chavez-DeRemer said she feared the chaos the last few weeks would only continue under a Jordan speakership. With the Republican conference still bitterly divided, she said the chamber should empower McHenry. “Until we can find clear consensus among the Republican Conference, it’s time to give expanded authority to Speaker Pro Tempore McHenry so the House can resume governing,” she wrote on X , formerly Twitter. Kelly of Pennsylvania voted for Rep. Steve Scalise on the first ballot. “We have elections for a reason,” Kelly said shortly before the vote. He said he would reassess his support on additional ballots. Rep. Victoria Spartz of Indiana told reporters on her way into the chamber that she would vote present if the vote count was not in Jordan’s favor. On Monday night she said she believed “intimidation techniques” were used to “push people on the floor before we find consensus.” LaMalfa, who voted for McCarthy in the first round, said the process to reach a speaker nominee was “terrible” but that he’ll pivot to Jordan. “I’m voting for Jim Jordan because he’s a good guy, and he’s done good work on committee, and we need to move forward with this place today and get our work done.” Jacob Fischler contributed to this report. X Republish Post Ohio’s Jim Jordan fails in bid for U.S. House speaker, leaving chamber paralyzed again by Jennifer Shutt, Ariana Figueroa and Ashley Murray, Minnesota Reformer October 17, 2023 Ohio’s Jim Jordan fails in bid for U.S. House speaker, leaving chamber paralyzed again by Jennifer Shutt, Ariana Figueroa and Ashley Murray, Minnesota Reformer October 17, 2023 WASHINGTON — The U.S. House rejected Ohio’s Jim Jordan as a candidate for speaker on Tuesday in the first round of voting, though the chamber was expected to potentially conduct additional votes on Jordan’s bid later in the day. Jordan, co-founder of the far-right Freedom Caucus and one of the lawmakers who bolstered former President Donald Trump’s false claims about the 2020 election, was unable to clinch the votes needed to hold the gavel amid concerns about his agenda and frustrations with his history inside and outside of Congress. The House has now gone two weeks without a speaker. Republican Reps. Don Bacon of Nebraska, Ken Buck of Colorado, Lori Chavez-DeRemer of Oregon, Anthony D’Esposito of New York, Mario Díaz-Balart of Florida, Jake Ellzey of Texas, Andrew Garbarino of New York, Carlos Giménez of Florida, Tony Gonzales of Texas, Kay Granger of Texas, John James of Michigan, Mike Kelly of Pennsylvania, Jen Kiggans of Virginia, Nick LaLota of New York, Doug LaMalfa of California, Mike Lawler of New York, John Rutherford of Florida, Mike Simpson of Idaho, Victoria Spartz of Indiana and Steve Womack of Arkansas, as well as all Democrats, voted against Jordan on the first ballot. ​​Florida Rep. Gus Bilirakis was the only Republican who didn’t vote. House Republican Conference Chair Elise Stefanik, of New York, said in her nomination speech that Jordan is a “patriot” who would “go after corruption and deliver accountability.” “Jim is the voice of the American people who have felt voiceless for far too long,” Stefanik said. “Whether as Judiciary chair, conservative leader, or representative for his constituents in west central Ohio, whether on the wrestling mat or in the committee room, Jim Jordan is strategic, scrappy, tough and principled.” House Democratic Caucus Chair Pete Aguilar, of California, nominated New York Rep. Hakeem Jeffries for speaker, saying he was the clear candidate for anyone who wanted a bipartisan path ahead. “The choice before us is simple, come together on a bipartisan path forward, or take us over the cliff,” Aguilar said. “Abandon the extremism that is preventing us from getting things done, or triple down on division and dysfunction.” “A vote today to make the architect of a nationwide abortion ban, a vocal election denier and an insurrection inside to the speaker of this house would be a terrible message to the country and our allies,” he said. There was no majority of the vote needed to elect a speaker with Jeffries receiving 212 votes and Jordan receiving 200, while other lawmakers got some of the Republican votes. McCarthy ousted two weeks ago The stalemate comes two weeks after eight House Republicans and Democrats voted to remove Kevin McCarthy as speaker about nine months into his tenure. McCarthy had to hold 15 separate votes in January before he was able to become speaker and only after making several agreements behind closed doors with far-right members of the party. After McCarthy announced he wouldn’t try again to become speaker, Louisiana’s Steve Scalise and Jordan announced their bids for the role. Scalise, currently the majority leader, won the first secret ballot nomination vote within the House Republican Conference. But he never scheduled a floor vote and withdrew from the race after just one day. Jordan had said after losing the first nomination vote that he would back Scalise on the floor, but several of his followers refused to back their party’s speaker nominee. House Republicans huddled again Friday to take a second nomination vote for speaker, choosing between Jordan and Georgia’s Austin Scott. Jordan won that nomination vote , but another secret ballot taken afterward showed that more than 50 House Republicans said they wouldn’t support him during a floor vote. That gap dwindled over the weekend and throughout Monday as several Republicans, who said they would never back Jordan during a floor vote, announced public support. Several holdouts remained heading into Tuesday’s floor vote, leaving Jordan short of the roughly 217 votes he would need to become speaker. Those holdouts maintained their opposition throughout the first ballot on Tuesday afternoon. “I’m voting for a good, solid, conservative Republican. That’s the only kind of person I’ll vote for,” Giménez said immediately following the vote. Rep. Dusty Johnson of South Dakota, said he anticipated that Jordan might not have all the votes on the first ballot, but he said he remained hopeful that those GOP holdouts would flip. “A lot of the people who are holding out are very reasonable people,” Johnson said. “It’s my assessment that when people stay at the table that a deal is possible.” Chavez-DeRemer, who voted for McCarthy on the first ballot, said she did so because he was the closest Republican to secure the necessary 217 votes, but that she would “continue to reassess where things stand as this process plays out.” Attempt to expand McHenry powers Pennsylvania GOP Rep. Mike Kelly introduced a resolution Monday night to elect Rep. Patrick McHenry as speaker pro tempore for up to 30 days. Approving that resolution would expand McHenry’s powers beyond what they are as the speaker pro tempore by designation, Kelly said. Under the resolution, McHenry, a North Carolina Republican, would stay in the role until Nov. 17 — the same day government funding is set to expire — or until a new speaker is elected, whichever is first. McHenry has been serving as the speaker pro tempore by McCarthy’s designation under a process put in place to ensure continuity of government following the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Chavez-DeRemer said she feared the chaos the last few weeks would only continue under a Jordan speakership. With the Republican conference still bitterly divided, she said the chamber should empower McHenry. “Until we can find clear consensus among the Republican Conference, it’s time to give expanded authority to Speaker Pro Tempore McHenry so the House can resume governing,” she wrote on X , formerly Twitter. Kelly of Pennsylvania voted for Rep. Steve Scalise on the first ballot. “We have elections for a reason,” Kelly said shortly before the vote. He said he would reassess his support on additional ballots. Rep. Victoria Spartz of Indiana told reporters on her way into the chamber that she would vote present if the vote count was not in Jordan’s favor. On Monday night she said she believed “intimidation techniques” were used to “push people on the floor before we find consensus.” LaMalfa, who voted for McCarthy in the first round, said the process to reach a speaker nominee was “terrible” but that he’ll pivot to Jordan. “I’m voting for Jim Jordan because he’s a good guy, and he’s done good work on committee, and we need to move forward with this place today and get our work done.” Jacob Fischler contributed to this report. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jennifer Shutt Jennifer covers the nation’s capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include congressional policy, politics and legal challenges with a focus on health care, unemployment, housing and aid to families. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR Ariana Figueroa Ariana covers the nation's capital for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include immigration, congressional policy and legal challenges with a focus on how those policies impact the lives of immigrants and migrants coming to the U.S. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR Ashley Murray Ashley Murray covers the nation’s capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include domestic policy and appropriations. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom North Carolina US Sen. Thom Tillis announces retirement after drawing Trump wrath by Jennifer Shutt June 29, 2025 Will control of Congress shift? The results hinge on a handful of states and races by Jennifer Shutt November 1, 2024 Law enforcement officials prepare for possible post-election violence in D.C. by Jennifer Shutt October 17, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.