Congress brokers deal on government spending deadlines, trying to avoid shutdown &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 21:26 News Story DC Bureau Government & Politics Congress brokers deal on government spending deadlines, trying to avoid shutdown By Jennifer Shutt - February 28, 2024 9:26 pm The agreement comes five months into the fiscal year, well past the deadline that lawmakers were supposed to meet for fiscal 2024. Photo by Jennifer Shutt/States Newsroom. WASHINGTON — U.S. House Republicans and Senate Democrats attempting to avert a partial government shutdown brokered an agreement Wednesday to extend government funding deadlines for a little while longer. The bipartisan deal will give Congress until March 8 to pass six spending bills lawmakers have finalized and until March 22 to pass another six bills still in negotiations that provide crucial funding for defense, health care and homeland security. The agreement comes five months into the fiscal year, well past the deadline that lawmakers were supposed to meet for fiscal 2024. If enacted, the short-term spending extensions would avoid a partial government shutdown that would have begun for some agencies on Friday at midnight and the rest on March 8. The House will likely put the bill up under suspension of the rules, which requires two-thirds support for passage. And the Senate will need approval of all 100 of its members, including several who enjoy holding up government funding deals, to meet that timeline. The four top congressional leaders and the four leaders of the Appropriations committees announced the plan Wednesday evening in a joint statement. “We are in agreement that Congress must work in a bipartisan manner to fund our government,” they wrote. “To give the House and Senate Appropriations Committees adequate time to execute on this deal in principle, including drafting, preparing report language, scoring and other technical matters and to allow members 72 hours to review, a short-term continuing resolution to fund agencies through March 8 and the 22 will be necessary, and voted on by the House and Senate this week,” the group of eight added. Lawmakers announced they’ve finalized the Agriculture-FDA, Energy-Water, Military Construction-VA and Transportation-HUD appropriations bills, all of which were supposed to become law by Friday under the current stopgap spending law. They’ve also brokered a deal on the Commerce-Justice-Science and Interior-Environment spending bills. The remaining six spending bills — Defense, Financial Services and General Government, Homeland Security, Labor-HHS-Education, Legislative Branch and State-Foreign Operations — would be due by March 22 under the new short-term extension. The statement from lawmakers didn’t indicate when they would release text of the bills that have been agreed to or the short-term spending bill that Congress will need to pass before Friday to extend their deadlines a bit longer. Short-term extensions Congress was supposed to complete work on the dozen annual appropriations bills before the start of the current fiscal year on Oct. 1, but have passed a series of short-term funding extensions to give themselves more time to negotiate. Former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican, and the Biden administration negotiated a deal on total spending levels for defense and non-defense discretionary spending last summer when they brokered the debt limit deal. But House Republicans walked away from those spending levels when drafting their original batch of spending bills. Current House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, renegotiated those spending levels with President Joe Biden in early January. Johnson then had to make a public statement inside the U.S. Capitol about a week later, saying that he would stick to the deal, amid comments from some members of the House Republican Conference that he was prepared to walk away from it. That agreement set funding levels at $886.3 billion for defense and $772.7 billion for domestic discretionary spending. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat; Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican; Johnson; House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries a New York Democrat; Senate Appropriations Chair Patty Murray, a Washington state Democrat; Senate Appropriations ranking member Susan Collins, a Maine Republican; House Appropriations Chair Kay Granger, a Texas Republican; and House Appropriations ranking member Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat, announced the agreement. X Republish Post Congress brokers deal on government spending deadlines, trying to avoid shutdown by Jennifer Shutt, Minnesota Reformer February 28, 2024 Congress brokers deal on government spending deadlines, trying to avoid shutdown by Jennifer Shutt, Minnesota Reformer February 28, 2024 WASHINGTON — U.S. House Republicans and Senate Democrats attempting to avert a partial government shutdown brokered an agreement Wednesday to extend government funding deadlines for a little while longer. The bipartisan deal will give Congress until March 8 to pass six spending bills lawmakers have finalized and until March 22 to pass another six bills still in negotiations that provide crucial funding for defense, health care and homeland security. The agreement comes five months into the fiscal year, well past the deadline that lawmakers were supposed to meet for fiscal 2024. If enacted, the short-term spending extensions would avoid a partial government shutdown that would have begun for some agencies on Friday at midnight and the rest on March 8. The House will likely put the bill up under suspension of the rules, which requires two-thirds support for passage. And the Senate will need approval of all 100 of its members, including several who enjoy holding up government funding deals, to meet that timeline. The four top congressional leaders and the four leaders of the Appropriations committees announced the plan Wednesday evening in a joint statement. “We are in agreement that Congress must work in a bipartisan manner to fund our government,” they wrote. “To give the House and Senate Appropriations Committees adequate time to execute on this deal in principle, including drafting, preparing report language, scoring and other technical matters and to allow members 72 hours to review, a short-term continuing resolution to fund agencies through March 8 and the 22 will be necessary, and voted on by the House and Senate this week,” the group of eight added. Lawmakers announced they’ve finalized the Agriculture-FDA, Energy-Water, Military Construction-VA and Transportation-HUD appropriations bills, all of which were supposed to become law by Friday under the current stopgap spending law. They’ve also brokered a deal on the Commerce-Justice-Science and Interior-Environment spending bills. The remaining six spending bills — Defense, Financial Services and General Government, Homeland Security, Labor-HHS-Education, Legislative Branch and State-Foreign Operations — would be due by March 22 under the new short-term extension. The statement from lawmakers didn’t indicate when they would release text of the bills that have been agreed to or the short-term spending bill that Congress will need to pass before Friday to extend their deadlines a bit longer. Short-term extensions Congress was supposed to complete work on the dozen annual appropriations bills before the start of the current fiscal year on Oct. 1, but have passed a series of short-term funding extensions to give themselves more time to negotiate. Former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican, and the Biden administration negotiated a deal on total spending levels for defense and non-defense discretionary spending last summer when they brokered the debt limit deal. But House Republicans walked away from those spending levels when drafting their original batch of spending bills. Current House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, renegotiated those spending levels with President Joe Biden in early January. Johnson then had to make a public statement inside the U.S. Capitol about a week later, saying that he would stick to the deal, amid comments from some members of the House Republican Conference that he was prepared to walk away from it. That agreement set funding levels at $886.3 billion for defense and $772.7 billion for domestic discretionary spending. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat; Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican; Johnson; House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries a New York Democrat; Senate Appropriations Chair Patty Murray, a Washington state Democrat; Senate Appropriations ranking member Susan Collins, a Maine Republican; House Appropriations Chair Kay Granger, a Texas Republican; and House Appropriations ranking member Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut Democrat, announced the agreement. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jennifer Shutt Jennifer covers the nation’s capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include congressional policy, politics and legal challenges with a focus on health care, unemployment, housing and aid to families. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Hemp growers, retailers targeted in section of government shutdown legislation by Jennifer Shutt November 11, 2025 Government shutdown looms Oct. 1 as Congress struggles with stopgap spending plan by Jennifer Shutt September 16, 2025 North Carolina US Sen. Thom Tillis announces retirement after drawing Trump wrath by Jennifer Shutt June 29, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.