Essentia Health-St. Mary's Medical Center welcomes radiologist Dr. Mark Johnson - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Essentia Health-St. Mary's Medical Center welcomes radiologist Dr. Mark Johnson Published September 26, 2026 at 8:00 AM Listen Share Share this article Dr. Mark Johnson, a radiologist, is thrilled to join Essentia Health-St. Mary’s Medical Center. “I am proud to be able to serve the communities of northern Minnesota and the greater region,” said Dr. Johnson. “I have a lot of ties to this area and am looking forward to raising my family in this community.” ADVERTISEMENT Dr. Johnson earned his medical degree from the University of Minnesota in Duluth. He completed his interventional and diagnostic radiology residency at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, New Hampshire, where he also completed his breast radiology fellowship. He is certified by the American Board of Radiology. “I view healthcare as an integral part of the community,” said Dr. Johnson. “It’s a partnership and an important connection that reminds me every day that our goal is to empower patients on their journey to what brings them joy.” To see Dr. Johnson’s full profile, please visit EssentiaHealth.org and click on “find a doctor.” Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.