Incoming DFL lawmaker: GOP campaign was surveilling wrong apartment &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 15:21 News Story Government & Politics Incoming DFL lawmaker: GOP campaign was surveilling wrong apartment Republicans say there's evidence Curtis Johnson was living out of the district By Michelle Griffith - December 6, 2024 3:21 pm The Minnesota Capitol Building. Courtesy of Minnesota House Public Information Services. State Rep.-elect Curtis Johnson, who’s been accused by his Republican opponent of not residing in the district he was elected to represent, said in court documents this week that the staffers from his GOP opponent’s campaign were ultimately surveilling the wrong apartment unit. GOP candidate Paul Wikstrom last month filed an election contest against Johnson, who won the race for House District 40B — which includes Roseville and Shoreview — by 30 points. Wikstrom alleged that Johnson primarily lives in his Little Canada home, which is outside the district he was elected to represent. Wikstrom alleged Johnson rented a Roseville studio apartment to make it appear like he lived in the district. The law requires that House candidates are a resident in the district for at least six months before an election. The stakes of the residency challenge are enormous: The Minnesota House is currently deadlocked between the two parties 67-67, with leaders engaged in power sharing negotiations prior to the Jan. 14 start of the legislative session. If the judge invalidates Johnson’s election, House Republicans would temporarily take control of the lower chamber until a special election. (Republicans are contesting another election in the south metro that Rep. Brad Tabke, DFL-Shakopee, won by 14 votes; election officials accidentally threw away 20 ballots, according to an investigation by the county attorney there.) Wikstrom said his campaign created an “investigative team” to monitor Johnson’s whereabouts and alleged Johnson would regularly come and go from his Little Canada home. His campaign staffers said they watched Johnson’s apartment in Roseville Estates, apartment #103, and said Johnson didn’t regularly come and go from the unit. They also called Xcel Energy and Comcast and were “given the impression” that the apartment didn’t have accounts set up for either. But Johnson said they were looking at the wrong apartment unit. Johnson said he’s been living in Roseville Estates, apartment #303, since Oct. 15, because apartment #103 had maintenance issues. Rosedale Estates Property Manager Megan Allyn said in a letter — that Johnson included in court records — that the property moved Johnson up to apartment #303, even though his lease is still registered with the old unit, because of “construction and some demolition projects.” Allyn said due to the construction, they removed the electrical meters, and all electric services are being billed to Rosedale Estates. Even so, Republicans argue, there was little evidence of anyone living at apartment #103 before October 15, when Johnson says he was moved. In a declaration, Johnson said that he signed a lease for his apartment in March of this year and that “the property was undergoing extensive construction at the time I moved in, and as a result, all electricity was being handled through the main building, and there was no individual electric meter for my apartment.” Johnson said his driver’s license is registered with a Roseville address, and he voted from it too. The Reformer called the property manager, which confirmed that Johnson was moved to apartment #303 due to construction. Johnson said he didn’t set up internet for his apartment because he typically worked “from my office or a coffee shop.” Johnson acknowledges he cannot account for his whereabouts every night on the campaign trail. In his notice of election contest, the Republican Wikstrom said that on Oct. 1, one of his campaign staffers placed tape on the door of apartment #103 “to see if the tape would still be there, undisturbed, at a future visit.” That campaign staffer said he went back on Oct. 9, and that tape was still there. Johnson said he didn’t move to apartment #303 until Oct. 15. On Oct. 22, another campaign staffer went to Johnson’s Roseville residence, apartment #103, and took photos underneath the door, which ended about an inch above the ground, according to the affidavit. What was visible was bare and didn’t have furniture, according to the affidavit. Johnson said he was living upstairs by Oct. 22. Johnson and his wife own a house in Little Canada, but they are looking to move to a home in House District 40B. He said he got the apartment for himself. “I visited the Little Canada house regularly, particularly early in the morning, between 5 and 5:30 a.m, to see my wife and walk our dogs. I would also go to the house for dinner to see my wife and our adult child, who was home for the summer,” Johnson said in his declaration. Wikstrom’s campaign said they would regularly see Johnson’s car parked at the Little Canada home for extended periods. Johnson noted in his declaration that for two days in May and for 10 days in September, he and his family were out of the state. An evidentiary hearing was held on Thursday and Friday in the election contest case. Proving a candidate is not a resident can be difficult. The most recent residency challenge was in 2016, when Republican Rep. Bob Barrett was banned from running because he didn’t live in his district. X Republish Post Incoming DFL lawmaker: GOP campaign was surveilling wrong apartment by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer December 6, 2024 Incoming DFL lawmaker: GOP campaign was surveilling wrong apartment by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer December 6, 2024 State Rep.-elect Curtis Johnson, who’s been accused by his Republican opponent of not residing in the district he was elected to represent, said in court documents this week that the staffers from his GOP opponent’s campaign were ultimately surveilling the wrong apartment unit. GOP candidate Paul Wikstrom last month filed an election contest against Johnson, who won the race for House District 40B — which includes Roseville and Shoreview — by 30 points. Wikstrom alleged that Johnson primarily lives in his Little Canada home, which is outside the district he was elected to represent. Wikstrom alleged Johnson rented a Roseville studio apartment to make it appear like he lived in the district. The law requires that House candidates are a resident in the district for at least six months before an election. The stakes of the residency challenge are enormous: The Minnesota House is currently deadlocked between the two parties 67-67, with leaders engaged in power sharing negotiations prior to the Jan. 14 start of the legislative session. If the judge invalidates Johnson’s election, House Republicans would temporarily take control of the lower chamber until a special election. (Republicans are contesting another election in the south metro that Rep. Brad Tabke, DFL-Shakopee, won by 14 votes; election officials accidentally threw away 20 ballots, according to an investigation by the county attorney there.) Wikstrom said his campaign created an “investigative team” to monitor Johnson’s whereabouts and alleged Johnson would regularly come and go from his Little Canada home. His campaign staffers said they watched Johnson’s apartment in Roseville Estates, apartment #103, and said Johnson didn’t regularly come and go from the unit. They also called Xcel Energy and Comcast and were “given the impression” that the apartment didn’t have accounts set up for either. But Johnson said they were looking at the wrong apartment unit. Johnson said he’s been living in Roseville Estates, apartment #303, since Oct. 15, because apartment #103 had maintenance issues. Rosedale Estates Property Manager Megan Allyn said in a letter — that Johnson included in court records — that the property moved Johnson up to apartment #303, even though his lease is still registered with the old unit, because of “construction and some demolition projects.” Allyn said due to the construction, they removed the electrical meters, and all electric services are being billed to Rosedale Estates. Even so, Republicans argue, there was little evidence of anyone living at apartment #103 before October 15, when Johnson says he was moved. In a declaration, Johnson said that he signed a lease for his apartment in March of this year and that “the property was undergoing extensive construction at the time I moved in, and as a result, all electricity was being handled through the main building, and there was no individual electric meter for my apartment.” Johnson said his driver’s license is registered with a Roseville address, and he voted from it too. The Reformer called the property manager, which confirmed that Johnson was moved to apartment #303 due to construction. Johnson said he didn’t set up internet for his apartment because he typically worked “from my office or a coffee shop.” Johnson acknowledges he cannot account for his whereabouts every night on the campaign trail. In his notice of election contest, the Republican Wikstrom said that on Oct. 1, one of his campaign staffers placed tape on the door of apartment #103 “to see if the tape would still be there, undisturbed, at a future visit.” That campaign staffer said he went back on Oct. 9, and that tape was still there. Johnson said he didn’t move to apartment #303 until Oct. 15. On Oct. 22, another campaign staffer went to Johnson’s Roseville residence, apartment #103, and took photos underneath the door, which ended about an inch above the ground, according to the affidavit. What was visible was bare and didn’t have furniture, according to the affidavit. Johnson said he was living upstairs by Oct. 22. Johnson and his wife own a house in Little Canada, but they are looking to move to a home in House District 40B. He said he got the apartment for himself. “I visited the Little Canada house regularly, particularly early in the morning, between 5 and 5:30 a.m, to see my wife and walk our dogs. I would also go to the house for dinner to see my wife and our adult child, who was home for the summer,” Johnson said in his declaration. Wikstrom’s campaign said they would regularly see Johnson’s car parked at the Little Canada home for extended periods. Johnson noted in his declaration that for two days in May and for 10 days in September, he and his family were out of the state. An evidentiary hearing was held on Thursday and Friday in the election contest case. Proving a candidate is not a resident can be difficult. The most recent residency challenge was in 2016, when Republican Rep. Bob Barrett was banned from running because he didn’t live in his district. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom House Democrats, Secretary of State are suing House GOP lawmakers. Here’s what you need to know. by Michelle Griffith January 23, 2025 Your questions answered on the messy start to the Minnesota legislative session by J. Patrick Coolican January 14, 2025 Minnesota Republicans claim control of state House while Democrats threaten a ‘strike’ by Max Nesterak January 6, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.