What to expect in Biden’s State of the Union speech Thursday night &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 14:28 News Story DC Bureau Election 2024 Government & Politics Work & Money What to expect in Biden’s State of the Union speech Thursday night By Jennifer Shutt and Ariana Figueroa - March 7, 2024 2:28 pm President Joe Biden will deliver his most important speech to date in the U.S. House chamber. Photo by Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images. WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden is set to deliver his State of the Union address Thursday night, with a grueling reelection campaign already fully underway and speaking to a chamber full of Republicans poised to seize on what they see as his shortcomings. Biden, seeking to unify Democrats, is expected to focus on issues core to his base, including the abrupt shift in abortion laws during the past two years resulting from a landmark Supreme Court decision overturning the constitutional right to abortion. The effects include recent barriers to access to in vitro fertilization in Alabama. Biden’s remarks to members of Congress, Supreme Court justices, members of the Cabinet, Joint Chiefs of Staff, guests, the media and more gathered in the U.S. House are slated to begin at 9 p.m. Eastern. Biden will dedicate significant time to talking about efforts he’s made to bridge the political divide by supporting the bipartisan laws Congress approved during his first term in office, including the infrastructure and semiconductor manufacturing laws. Border security and immigration policy are sure to come up as well, with Biden expected to rebuke Republicans for demanding Democrats broker a compromise bill, only to block that legislation from moving forward in the Senate. The ongoing wars in Ukraine and Israel are likely to be central in both the speech and the guest list, especially with the $95 billion emergency aid bill the Senate passed last month stalled in the House. Guest list Democrats and Republicans will try to convey what they see as the most pressing issues facing the country through the guests they bring to the State of the Union. Guests sit in the galleries above the chamber. Many Democrats have invited people whose lives have been changed by GOP states’ abortion restrictions or access to IVF, while Republicans’ guests highlight the Israel-Hamas war, the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan and border security. Virginia Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine plans to bring Elizabeth Carr, the first person born in the United States through in vitro fertilization, in Norfolk, Virginia in 1981. Kaine said in a statement that the “Carr family’s journey with IVF is a point of pride for Virginia and has given hope to generations of families struggling with infertility.” “In the wake of the Alabama Supreme Court’s ruling, it’s more important than ever that we commit to protecting access to IVF services nationwide,” Kaine said. “We must work to safeguard IVF so the Elizabeth Carrs of the world can continue to be born.” Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey Wednesday night signed a bill aimed at restarting in vitro fertilization services in the state, minutes after the Alabama Legislature gave final approval to the legislation. IVF programs in Alabama have been paused since a Feb. 16 Alabama Supreme Court decision that declared frozen embryos children. U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, plans to bring more than 20 guests, including a hostage taken by Hamas during its attack on Israel in October and the parents of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich, who has been detained in Russia for a year. “I am honored to host freed Hamas hostage Mia Schem to the State of the Union. Mia spent more than 50 days in captivity after being kidnapped on October 7th,” Johnson wrote on social media. Johnson will also host Orna and Daniel Neutra, the mother and son of Omer Neutra, an American in the Israeli Defense Forces who was abducted by Hamas during its October attack. In a separate social media post, Johnson pressed the Biden administration to do more to free Gershkovich from Russian prison. Johnson, so far, has refused to bring the Senate-passed bill that includes billions in military and humanitarian assistance for Ukraine up for a vote in the House. “The U.S. must always stand for freedom of the press, especially in places where it is under assault,” Johnson said. “The Admin must bring Evan home.” Johnson’s other guests include Darin Hoover, father of Marine Corps Staff Sergeant Darin “Taylor” Hoover, who was killed during the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan; Alicia Lopez, mother of Marine Corps Corporal Hunter Lopez, who was killed during the Afghanistan withdrawal; Stefanie Turner, whose son Tucker Roe died of fentanyl poisoning; and the leader of Johnson’s church, Pastor John Fream. Johnson said in a statement announcing his guests that Biden’s “failed policies have opened our borders, jeopardized our safety, reduced our standard of living, and weakened our standing on the world stage.” “I am honored to host these special guests and spotlight their personal stories,” Johnson said. “While America’s state of the union is sadly in decline, these individuals remind us of America’s greatness, even in the face of such challenging circumstances.” Housing costs, prescription drugs, health care Senior Biden administration officials speaking on background Wednesday said the president will put forward a series of proposals in his speech to address housing, such as ways to expand supply, help renters and assist first-time homeowners. “We really see lowering housing costs and boosting the supply of housing as a key unfinished component of the president’s economic agenda,” the senior administration official said. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said during Wednesday’s press briefing the president will talk about his plans to continue pushing for lower costs for prescription drugs, “protecting our democratic institutions,” and protecting reproductive health care. “The president will outline an agenda on continuing to build on the progress we have made in the last three years,” she said. Jean-Pierre said the president will also talk about how his administration will continue to build on its work to address the opioid crisis, mental health, curbs on consumer “junk fees” and protection of legislation signed into law like the Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS Act. The president will tout his economic accomplishments and policies, as well as make the case for Republicans to restore the expanded child tax credit, top economic Biden officials said Tuesday. He’ll also highlight how his administration has forgiven about $138 billion in student loan debt for nearly 4 million Americans and rolled out a new student loan repayment plan. Biden will address the need to amend the U.S. tax code, specifically to make sure that large corporations and the wealthiest of Americans are paying taxes. Republicans’ most vocal response to Biden’s address to the joint session of Congress will come from Alabama Republican Sen. Katie Britt, who was just elected to the upper chamber in 2022. Texas Republican Rep. Monica De La Cruz will deliver her party’s Spanish-language rebuttal. X Republish Post What to expect in Biden’s State of the Union speech Thursday night by Jennifer Shutt and Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer March 7, 2024 What to expect in Biden’s State of the Union speech Thursday night by Jennifer Shutt and Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer March 7, 2024 WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden is set to deliver his State of the Union address Thursday night, with a grueling reelection campaign already fully underway and speaking to a chamber full of Republicans poised to seize on what they see as his shortcomings. Biden, seeking to unify Democrats, is expected to focus on issues core to his base, including the abrupt shift in abortion laws during the past two years resulting from a landmark Supreme Court decision overturning the constitutional right to abortion. The effects include recent barriers to access to in vitro fertilization in Alabama. Biden’s remarks to members of Congress, Supreme Court justices, members of the Cabinet, Joint Chiefs of Staff, guests, the media and more gathered in the U.S. House are slated to begin at 9 p.m. Eastern. Biden will dedicate significant time to talking about efforts he’s made to bridge the political divide by supporting the bipartisan laws Congress approved during his first term in office, including the infrastructure and semiconductor manufacturing laws. Border security and immigration policy are sure to come up as well, with Biden expected to rebuke Republicans for demanding Democrats broker a compromise bill, only to block that legislation from moving forward in the Senate. The ongoing wars in Ukraine and Israel are likely to be central in both the speech and the guest list, especially with the $95 billion emergency aid bill the Senate passed last month stalled in the House. Guest list Democrats and Republicans will try to convey what they see as the most pressing issues facing the country through the guests they bring to the State of the Union. Guests sit in the galleries above the chamber. Many Democrats have invited people whose lives have been changed by GOP states’ abortion restrictions or access to IVF, while Republicans’ guests highlight the Israel-Hamas war, the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan and border security. Virginia Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine plans to bring Elizabeth Carr, the first person born in the United States through in vitro fertilization, in Norfolk, Virginia in 1981. Kaine said in a statement that the “Carr family’s journey with IVF is a point of pride for Virginia and has given hope to generations of families struggling with infertility.” “In the wake of the Alabama Supreme Court’s ruling, it’s more important than ever that we commit to protecting access to IVF services nationwide,” Kaine said. “We must work to safeguard IVF so the Elizabeth Carrs of the world can continue to be born.” Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey Wednesday night signed a bill aimed at restarting in vitro fertilization services in the state, minutes after the Alabama Legislature gave final approval to the legislation. IVF programs in Alabama have been paused since a Feb. 16 Alabama Supreme Court decision that declared frozen embryos children. U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, plans to bring more than 20 guests, including a hostage taken by Hamas during its attack on Israel in October and the parents of Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich, who has been detained in Russia for a year. “I am honored to host freed Hamas hostage Mia Schem to the State of the Union. Mia spent more than 50 days in captivity after being kidnapped on October 7th,” Johnson wrote on social media. Johnson will also host Orna and Daniel Neutra, the mother and son of Omer Neutra, an American in the Israeli Defense Forces who was abducted by Hamas during its October attack. In a separate social media post, Johnson pressed the Biden administration to do more to free Gershkovich from Russian prison. Johnson, so far, has refused to bring the Senate-passed bill that includes billions in military and humanitarian assistance for Ukraine up for a vote in the House. “The U.S. must always stand for freedom of the press, especially in places where it is under assault,” Johnson said. “The Admin must bring Evan home.” Johnson’s other guests include Darin Hoover, father of Marine Corps Staff Sergeant Darin “Taylor” Hoover, who was killed during the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan; Alicia Lopez, mother of Marine Corps Corporal Hunter Lopez, who was killed during the Afghanistan withdrawal; Stefanie Turner, whose son Tucker Roe died of fentanyl poisoning; and the leader of Johnson’s church, Pastor John Fream. Johnson said in a statement announcing his guests that Biden’s “failed policies have opened our borders, jeopardized our safety, reduced our standard of living, and weakened our standing on the world stage.” “I am honored to host these special guests and spotlight their personal stories,” Johnson said. “While America’s state of the union is sadly in decline, these individuals remind us of America’s greatness, even in the face of such challenging circumstances.” Housing costs, prescription drugs, health care Senior Biden administration officials speaking on background Wednesday said the president will put forward a series of proposals in his speech to address housing, such as ways to expand supply, help renters and assist first-time homeowners. “We really see lowering housing costs and boosting the supply of housing as a key unfinished component of the president’s economic agenda,” the senior administration official said. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said during Wednesday’s press briefing the president will talk about his plans to continue pushing for lower costs for prescription drugs, “protecting our democratic institutions,” and protecting reproductive health care. “The president will outline an agenda on continuing to build on the progress we have made in the last three years,” she said. Jean-Pierre said the president will also talk about how his administration will continue to build on its work to address the opioid crisis, mental health, curbs on consumer “junk fees” and protection of legislation signed into law like the Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS Act. The president will tout his economic accomplishments and policies, as well as make the case for Republicans to restore the expanded child tax credit, top economic Biden officials said Tuesday. He’ll also highlight how his administration has forgiven about $138 billion in student loan debt for nearly 4 million Americans and rolled out a new student loan repayment plan. Biden will address the need to amend the U.S. tax code, specifically to make sure that large corporations and the wealthiest of Americans are paying taxes. Republicans’ most vocal response to Biden’s address to the joint session of Congress will come from Alabama Republican Sen. Katie Britt, who was just elected to the upper chamber in 2022. Texas Republican Rep. Monica De La Cruz will deliver her party’s Spanish-language rebuttal. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jennifer Shutt Jennifer covers the nation’s capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include congressional policy, politics and legal challenges with a focus on health care, unemployment, housing and aid to families. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR Ariana Figueroa Ariana covers the nation's capital for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include immigration, congressional policy and legal challenges with a focus on how those policies impact the lives of immigrants and migrants coming to the U.S. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Rhetoric versus reality: Addressing common misconceptions about immigration by Gloria Rebecca Gomez October 18, 2024 Trump claims the title of ‘father of IVF’ in Fox News town hall with women voters by Shauneen Miranda October 16, 2024 Biden slams Trump as ‘damn un-American,’ urges Congress to speed up hurricane aid by Jennifer Shutt October 10, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.