Wisconsin report says no charges in Superior police shooting - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Wisconsin report says no charges in Superior police shooting By WDIO --> Two injured in Officer-involved shooting in Superior on May 10, 2026. The Douglas County District Attorney announced no criminal charges will be filed against Officer Ronald Robinson for the May 10, 2026 shooting of Scott Roe and Macy Johnson. According to the final report, Officer Robinson shot Roe and Johnson near E. 7th Street and 6th Avenue East after responding to a 911 call in which Roe said he wanted police to shoot him and that he had a knife. RELATED: Wisconsin DOJ investigates Sunday officer-involved shooting in Superior, two injured The Wisconsin Department of Justice, Division of Criminal Investigation, conducted interviews with witnesses including Officer Robinson, Roe and Johnson, and reviewed bodycamera footage from the scene. According to the report, Officer Robinson and Officer Ron Custer approached the apartment from E. 7th Street and proceeded towards the southwest corner of the building. There were numerous vehicles in the parking lot at the time. Officer Robinson met one woman who was walking toward her car. Officer Robinson said he saw something "weird" out of the corner of his eye, and turned to the right, towards the parking lot. He saw a man and woman standing behind a vehicle. The report states Officer Robinson saw the man push the woman away. The man started moving toward the officer armed with a large knife. Officer Robinson recognized the man as Scott Roe from a photo he had seen before getting out of his squad car. Officer Robinson ordered him to drop the weapon before firing. Johnson was unintentionally struck by gunfire while standing behind Roe. Officer Robinson stated he was concerned that Roe was "closing the distance between them," and discharged his fiream because he was concerned the man was going to stab him. The officer said he did not see Johnson behind Roe when he ordered him to drop the knife. According to the report, Roe was approximately a car length from Officer Robinson. Both Roe and Johnson were treated by Officer Robinson and Custer on scene. They were taken to a local hospital for treatment. Medical records showed both Roe and Johnson required surgery for their injuries. Johnson said Roe “started going for it” when he saw officers arrive. After the incident, Roe told an officer, “Tell that officer I’m sorry, I was in the wrong headspace.” “My plan was never to hurt him, it was for him to hurt me.” “I’m sorry I put him through that.” “I feel terrible about it. I really do.” The District Attorney’s report said Officer Robinson fired his weapon only as many times as necessary to stop the threat and stopped when the threat was neutralized. The report also explained that Wisconsin law allows self-defense to extend to unintended harm to a third party, as long as the officer’s actions are not criminally reckless or negligent. The final report stated Officer Robinson was lawfully entitled to use deadly force under Wisconsin law, as he reasonably believed Roe posed an imminent threat of death or serious injury. The District Attorney concluded Officer Robinson’s actions were not criminally reckless or negligent and that self-defense applied, so no charges will be filed. RELATED: Superior Police provide update on two officer-involved shootings For Related Stories: Northwest Wisconsin Superior Superior Police Department --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed