Part-time, citizen legislators bring expertise from their day jobs — and potential for conflicts &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 7:00 News Story Government & Politics Part-time, citizen legislators bring expertise from their day jobs — and potential for conflicts Engineering firm of Ann Johnson Stewart, DFL candidate in special Senate election, won bevy of state contracts By Michelle Griffith - October 16, 2024 7:00 am Former Sen. Ann Johnson Stewart is running again for Minnesota Senate in a contested Nov. 5 special election. Campaign photo. Minnesota’s part-time, citizen-Legislature gives the Capitol expertise across a range of fields, from insurance brokers to police officers, doctors to teachers. Former Sen. Ann Johnson Stewart, who is running for the Minnesota Senate in a contested Nov. 5 special election, ​​has brought a wealth of knowledge about civil engineering to a Legislature that spends billions every year on roads and bridges, wastewater, lead pipe removal and other public works projects. Johnson Stewart has a cult following for her quirky social media videos in which she explains various aspects of infrastructure. On the flipside, however, lawmakers like Johnson Stewart who work in a special field also face the problem of the appearance of conflicts of interest. Johnson Stewart is the founder of Professional Engineering Services, which specializes in civil engineering and construction management. Since 2008 — before Johnson Stewart ran for office — Professional Engineering Services has received over $10.5 million in direct contracts with the Minnesota Department of Transportation, according to the agency. Johnson Stewart’s company has also received over $12 million in subcontracts — meaning a company working directly with the state subcontracted the work with Professional Engineering Services. In 2021, Johnson Stewart voted for a biennial transportation budget bill. It's unclear whether Professional Engineering Services contracts were funded directly from the bill because MnDOT has other income streams. Johnson Stewart was a sitting senator in 2021 and 2022 and in that time MnDOT gave her company the green light to begin work on 18 contracts, according to the agency. The company was not directly named in legislation — a practice often used by Democratic-Farmer-Labor lawmakers in recent years to directly allocate state budget dollars to companies and nonprofits. Johnson Stewart said she sold the company at the end of 2022, and now works there part-time. She said she initiated the sale years before her initial run for office in 2020, but it took time to find a buyer. The 60-year-old civil engineer is running again for the Senate in District 45 — the only Senate seat on the November ballot this year after former Sen. Kelly Morrison resigned to focus on her bid for Congress. Johnson Stewart left the Senate in 2022 after redistricting put her in the same district as Morrison, and Johnson Stewart opted not to run. Her Republican challenger in her comeback race is Kathleen Fowke, who unsuccessfully ran for the seat in 2022 and has faced her own questions about financial ties to the state’s biggest electric utility. The Senate is now evenly split 33-33 between Democrats and Republicans, and the race is drawing big money in outside spending as Republicans seek to break up the DFL’s trifecta. Senate District 45 includes the western Twin Cities suburbs Minnetonka, Wayzata, St. Bonifacius, Orono and Excelsior. In 2021, Republicans controlled the Minnesota Senate, and Gov. Tim Walz had to call a special session so the DFL-controlled House and the Senate could come to an agreement on crucial budget bills and avoid a government shutdown. The transportation budget bill was approved in a 67-0 vote on June 21, 2021. Johnson Stewart told the Reformer in an interview that she didn’t vote on bills to benefit her company. She did vote for the 2021 transportation budget bill, but Professional Engineering Services had to go through a competitive grant process to receive the funds, and her company wasn’t given a hand-out. "Every vote I took in the Senate was based on what was best for my district and my constituents, who have urgent infrastructure needs. The Senate has a clear policy around conflicts of interest, and I've always followed that policy to a T . When (Professional Engineering Services) applies for contracts , it goes through the same competitive process all companies go through with MnDOT, and legislators have no role in that process," Johnson Stewart later said in a statement. During her time in the Senate, Johnson Stewart said she remembers at least two times excusing herself from voting to avoid the perception of a conflict of interest regarding a vote on the Southwest Light Rail Train line that her company was doing work on at the time. When asked whether she would abstain from voting on bills that impact any Professional Engineering Services projects if she’s elected to the Senate again, she said no, because she no longer owns the company. “Especially since we only have a one-seat majority, and we’re voting on funding for critical infrastructure projects, I wouldn’t know ahead of time if (Professional Engineering Services) is going to work on that project, so I would have to abstain from everything,” Johnson Stewart said. Lawmakers earn $51,750 annually and are in session less than half the year. Even though the job is typically full-time, given the demands of constituent services and off-session policy work, many lawmakers have another job. As realtors, farmers and attorneys, they are often drafting policies, with their expertise, that will directly affect their other occupation. Many lawmakers have been accused of conflicts of interest, including former Senate Majority Leader Jeremy Miller, R-Winona, whose family ties to deer farming put him under scrutiny during a vote on chronic wasting disease. Rep. Jessica Hanson, DFL-Burnsville, in 2024 helped negotiate changes to the state’s legal cannabis law while her partner started a cannabis business. X Republish Post Part-time, citizen legislators bring expertise from their day jobs — and potential for conflicts by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer October 16, 2024 Part-time, citizen legislators bring expertise from their day jobs — and potential for conflicts by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer October 16, 2024 Minnesota’s part-time, citizen-Legislature gives the Capitol expertise across a range of fields, from insurance brokers to police officers, doctors to teachers. Former Sen. Ann Johnson Stewart, who is running for the Minnesota Senate in a contested Nov. 5 special election, ​​has brought a wealth of knowledge about civil engineering to a Legislature that spends billions every year on roads and bridges, wastewater, lead pipe removal and other public works projects. Johnson Stewart has a cult following for her quirky social media videos in which she explains various aspects of infrastructure. On the flipside, however, lawmakers like Johnson Stewart who work in a special field also face the problem of the appearance of conflicts of interest. Johnson Stewart is the founder of Professional Engineering Services, which specializes in civil engineering and construction management. Since 2008 — before Johnson Stewart ran for office — Professional Engineering Services has received over $10.5 million in direct contracts with the Minnesota Department of Transportation, according to the agency. Johnson Stewart’s company has also received over $12 million in subcontracts — meaning a company working directly with the state subcontracted the work with Professional Engineering Services. In 2021, Johnson Stewart voted for a biennial transportation budget bill. It's unclear whether Professional Engineering Services contracts were funded directly from the bill because MnDOT has other income streams. Johnson Stewart was a sitting senator in 2021 and 2022 and in that time MnDOT gave her company the green light to begin work on 18 contracts, according to the agency. The company was not directly named in legislation — a practice often used by Democratic-Farmer-Labor lawmakers in recent years to directly allocate state budget dollars to companies and nonprofits. Johnson Stewart said she sold the company at the end of 2022, and now works there part-time. She said she initiated the sale years before her initial run for office in 2020, but it took time to find a buyer. The 60-year-old civil engineer is running again for the Senate in District 45 — the only Senate seat on the November ballot this year after former Sen. Kelly Morrison resigned to focus on her bid for Congress. Johnson Stewart left the Senate in 2022 after redistricting put her in the same district as Morrison, and Johnson Stewart opted not to run. Her Republican challenger in her comeback race is Kathleen Fowke, who unsuccessfully ran for the seat in 2022 and has faced her own questions about financial ties to the state’s biggest electric utility. The Senate is now evenly split 33-33 between Democrats and Republicans, and the race is drawing big money in outside spending as Republicans seek to break up the DFL’s trifecta. Senate District 45 includes the western Twin Cities suburbs Minnetonka, Wayzata, St. Bonifacius, Orono and Excelsior. In 2021, Republicans controlled the Minnesota Senate, and Gov. Tim Walz had to call a special session so the DFL-controlled House and the Senate could come to an agreement on crucial budget bills and avoid a government shutdown. The transportation budget bill was approved in a 67-0 vote on June 21, 2021. Johnson Stewart told the Reformer in an interview that she didn’t vote on bills to benefit her company. She did vote for the 2021 transportation budget bill, but Professional Engineering Services had to go through a competitive grant process to receive the funds, and her company wasn’t given a hand-out. "Every vote I took in the Senate was based on what was best for my district and my constituents, who have urgent infrastructure needs. The Senate has a clear policy around conflicts of interest, and I've always followed that policy to a T. When (Professional Engineering Services) applies for contracts, it goes through the same competitive process all companies go through with MnDOT, and legislators have no role in that process," Johnson Stewart later said in a statement. During her time in the Senate, Johnson Stewart said she remembers at least two times excusing herself from voting to avoid the perception of a conflict of interest regarding a vote on the Southwest Light Rail Train line that her company was doing work on at the time. When asked whether she would abstain from voting on bills that impact any Professional Engineering Services projects if she’s elected to the Senate again, she said no, because she no longer owns the company. “Especially since we only have a one-seat majority, and we’re voting on funding for critical infrastructure projects, I wouldn’t know ahead of time if (Professional Engineering Services) is going to work on that project, so I would have to abstain from everything,” Johnson Stewart said. Lawmakers earn $51,750 annually and are in session less than half the year. Even though the job is typically full-time, given the demands of constituent services and off-session policy work, many lawmakers have another job. As realtors, farmers and attorneys, they are often drafting policies, with their expertise, that will directly affect their other occupation. Many lawmakers have been accused of conflicts of interest, including former Senate Majority Leader Jeremy Miller, R-Winona, whose family ties to deer farming put him under scrutiny during a vote on chronic wasting disease. Rep. Jessica Hanson, DFL-Burnsville, in 2024 helped negotiate changes to the state’s legal cannabis law while her partner started a cannabis business. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Takeaways from the 2026 Minnesota legislative session by Michelle Griffith May 18, 2026 Minnesota Legislature closes out session marked by partisan division and election year politics by Michelle Griffith May 17, 2026 Voters will decide Tuesday who controls the Minnesota Senate. Here’s what you need to know. by Michelle Griffith November 3, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.