The indignity of moving your stuff in trash bags Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in NEWS PARTNERS Legislation aims to protect Minnesota's foster youth from the indignity of moving in trash bags The pending Minnesota Foster Youth Bill of Rights details a list of legal protections for young people in government care that includes the right to “appropriate travel bags.” by Hana Ikramuddin | The Imprint May 13, 2026 May 13, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook A proposed Foster Youth Bill of Rights in Minnesota would include the right to “appropriate travel bags” instead of the plastic garbage bags often provided to foster children when they move. Credit: Hana Ikramuddin | The Imprint. Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW This story was originally published by The Imprint , a national nonprofit news outlet covering child welfare and youth justice. Sign up for The Imprint’s free newsletters here . When Deddtrease Edwards ran away from foster care for the last time at age 17, she packed her few belongings the way she always had: in trash bags. By then, it felt normal. The north Minneapolis teen, now 28, had already spent three years piling clothes, photos and crafts she made in group homes into plastic sacks. At times the bags would rip, leaving everything she owned scattered on the ground. “You just feel disposable and like nobody cares about you,” said Edwards, a contributor to The Imprint’s Youth Voices Rising program. Final votes could be cast this week that would protect other foster youth from this experience. A bill to outlaw the practice pushed by multidenominational faith groups failed to progress this session. But the pending Minnesota Foster Youth Bill of Rights details a list of legal protections for young people in government care that includes the right to “appropriate travel bags.” Rep. Jess Hanson, who represents parts of Savage and Burnsville, introduced both legislative proposals. In a phone interview last month, she said wouldn’t send her children to summer camp with their stuff packed in garbage bags. So, she asked, why should foster children have to move between homes like that? “I hate that I have to pass legislation to make sure that fosters are treated with the dignity and worth that they inherently have as children,” Hanson said in an interview. If the Foster Youth Bill of Rights becomes law, Minnesota would join several other states — including New York , Oregon, Oklahoma and Maryland — that have recently passed legislation addressing the problem. Former south-central Minnesota foster youth Shane Read, 29, highlighted the indignity of being removed from home and then shuffled around with disposable bags. Read, who has also written opinion pieces for Youth Voices Rising , entered foster care at age 11. Living between temporary homes and facilities, he moved with garbage bags twice. “It was a 16-gallon,” he said. “And so I’m putting my four outfits and my one stuffed animal and the little bit of money that I had inside of it.” The state’s Ombudsperson for Foster Youth Misty Coonce is pushing for the bill of rights to counter these far-too-common occurrences. The legislation — which could see a final floor vote this week — includes language to protect young people’s privacy and their rights to give input on healthcare decisions and participate in religious and cultural practices. At a legislative hearing in March, Coonce said the bill’s standards will ensure that kids are treated consistently by foster parents and social workers. “It’s not a fix for every problem in our system,” she said. “But it is a huge step forward and sends a message that we expect better for our foster youth.” Leah Patton is a lobbyist heading the Joint Religious Legislative Committee, a group representing Catholic, Protestant and Jewish interests that brought the issue to Hanson’s office. Other legislative pushes focus on improving food security and affordable housing, gun violence prevention and efforts to limit online gambling. Patton said her group’s focus on the need for luggage in foster care was inspired by a similar New York law that passed earlier this year. The bill would have clarified existing law in order to allow counties to accept donated luggage as long as it’s new or in good condition. It would also have required counties to submit annual reports to the Office of the Foster Youth Ombudsperson about compliance. But the lobbying began too late in the legislative session for the bill to proceed this year, Patton said. In the meantime, she is reaching out to other lawmakers to gather support for next year. “It’s upsetting that vulnerable kids are having to deal with that. It just seems like such a basic thing that should be intuitive, shouldn’t even be a question,” Patton said. “And it’s something that’s retraumatizing these kids — kids that already experience shame and embarrassment at being in foster care.” Anita Olson, founder of Safe Haven Foster Shoppe. Credit: Hana Ikramuddin | The Imprint. Absent any current legal requirements in Minnesota, some local governments have come to rely on charities. Anita Olson, a foster parent who lives roughly an hour north of Minneapolis, runs a community closet that supplies luggage and other necessities to children in her state and neighboring Wisconsin. Olson learned of such needs when she began taking in foster youth in 2013, and realized kids often arrived with nothing but what they were wearing. And the costs of basic necessities added up. So in 2017 she founded Safe Haven Foster Shoppe, which provides clothes, toiletries and toys, packed neatly in backpacks and duffle bags. She’s also helped social workers who’ve asked for luggage for foster youth moving between placements. “It definitely has a long-lasting impact,” Olson said. “The earlier the intervention of removing that garbage bag and replacing it with something that makes them feel more valued and has substantial thought behind it is going to alleviate more trauma.” Olsen’s organization provides shoes, luggage, toys and other essentials to foster youth. Credit: Hana Ikramuddin | The Imprint. Nashauna Johnson-Lenoir, who entered foster care in Chicago in the 1990s at age 4, said she moved between more than a dozen foster and group homes with garbage bags. Sometimes when she arrived at a new home, her foster parents made her empty out her bags on the porch and said she was only allowed to keep some things. Or they made her throw it all out. Johnson-Lenoir now runs Journie, a Rochester, Minnesota-based nonprofit that prepares foster youth for adulthood and teaches them leadership skills. But the experience of moving with a garbage bag has stuck with her. When a foster parent finally gave her a suitcase with wheels, along with a carry-on and a duffle bag, she cried. “I took a brown permanent marker, and I wrote my name on it,” she said. “I was excited because it was mine.” READ MORE Winter closes in on residents of St. Paul’s growing Randolph encampment Minnesota attorney general sues two homesellers for allegedly preying on Muslim buyers St. Paul crews move to clear Pig’s Eye encampment, leading to tense moments with volunteers Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Hana Ikramuddin | The Imprint Hana Ikramuddin is a Minnesota-based reporter covering child welfare. Her writing has appeared in the Houston Chronicle, the Minnesota Star Tribune and CT Insider, among other outlets. Hana majored in... More by Hana Ikramuddin | The Imprint Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close