t. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ENVIRONMENT St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Northern Iron and Machine, a foundry on St. Paul’s East Side, is closing after a yearslong battle with pollution regulators. Neighbors want to make sure no new polluter comes in and to share success across the city by Andrew Hazzard 3 hours ago October 5, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Mike Hirabayashi, a volunteer with UNIDOS, attends a lunch at Indigenous Roots in St. Paul to celebrate the final melting day for Northern Iron on Saturday, Oct. 3, 2026. Credit: Alberto Villafan | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW When Northern Iron and Machine stopped melting metal at the end of September, residents of St. Paul’s East Side breathed a sigh of relief. The century-old foundry located off Phalen Boulevard abruptly announced plans to close in July in the midst of a yearslong legal fight with state regulators and neighbors who say the factory’s pollution negatively impacted their health and well-being. The company plans to close the factory by the end of the year; Northern Iron laid off 50 employees and ended foundry production Oct. 1, according to a notice filed with the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development. “It’s been a pretty big celebration,” St. Paul resident Mike Hirabayashi told Sahan Journal. Hirabayashi joined dozens of East Siders and environmental justice advocates around the Twin Cities at a Oct. 3 party commemorating the end of metal melting at Northern Iron, which in 2024 was the leading industrial source of smog and lead pollution in Ramsey County, according to state data . Three signs formerly used to protest the operations of Northern Iron, a foundry in St. Paul. Credit: Alberto Villafan | Sahan Journal They ate food from local restaurants and painted pumpkins with their children at the Indigenous Roots Cultural Arts Center. The mood was jovial, but determined, with participants making plans to continue the fight for environmental justice across the city. St. Paul Council Member Cheniqua Johnson, who represents part of the East Side, praised neighbors for their steadfast advocacy. “It only happened because you said no,” Johnson said. The St. Paul City Council could have a role to play in the site's future. Northern Iron’s address is currently zoned for general industrial use. Although any new facility proposed there would be subjected to a rigorous environmental review through the state’s new cumulative impact law aimed at protecting diverse, historically polluted neighborhoods like the East Side, neighbors say they want to see changes. Vivian Tran, executive director of the Payne-Phalen Community Council, said neighbors are happy to see the foundry close. “We’re really excited, very relieved,” she said. “We’ve been talking about zoning and the future.” RELATED STORIES Northern Iron to close East Side foundry after battle with regulators, neighbors Neighbors of troubled St. Paul foundry pack courtroom as judge weighs permit revocation There are more environmental justice issues on the East Side, Tran said. The struggle around Northern Iron and the community support networks established during Operation Metro Surge helped form stronger bonds in the neighborhood that will be useful in the future, she said. “The fight is not over, it just shifts into the next phase,” Danielle Swift, an East Side resident, told Sahan Journal. Swift works across town for the Frogtown Neighborhood Association, which has been organizing residents against another urban foundry, St. Paul Brass and Aluminum. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) found pollution violations at St. Paul Brass in 2022, and community members have worked to obtain and interpret reams of data with the help of local scientists. The EPA settled with St. Paul Brass last September in a deal that required the foundry to install new pollution-control equipment, but lacked a fine. Seeing Northern Iron close after years of neighborhood organizing offers a glimmer of hope, Swift said. “It’s inspiring when you see someone doing something that seems impossible,” she said. The inspiration is being felt citywide. Residents of the industrial Southport neighborhood on St. Paul’s West Side along the Mississippi River attended the celebration at Indigenous Roots and encouraged East Siders to join their campaign to improve air quality. Sofia Gonzalez, a Southport resident, said she has become more aware of pollution in her neighborhood in recent years and is glad that East Side residents get relief. “It’s really good for the community,” Gonzalez said. Sofia Gonzalez, a resident of the industrial Southport neighborhood in St. Paul, says she has become more aware of pollution in her neighborhood in recent years. She's seen at a lunch celebrating the closing of Northern Iron on Oct. 3, 2026. Credit: Alberto Villafan | Sahan Journal Permit revocation case continues The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) fined Northern Iron $40,000 in 2022 for failing to inform regulators about changes to pollution control equipment over several years, which limited regulators' ability to know how much it was emitting. That fine kicked off a yearslong fight between the state and foundry, which was purchased that year by Lawton Standard. The company sued the state in April 2024 after the MPCA ordered it to reduce operational hours, citing pollution estimates that suggested the factory was emitting high levels of lead and smog. In June, the MPCA took the rare step of attempting to revoke Northern Iron’s operations permit. Neighbors packed a July hearing at the Court of Administrative Hearings where the company’s legal team asked for the case to be dismissed. Last month, Judge Megan McKenzie denied that motion, and the case continues. The next hearing is scheduled for March 1, after the foundry is currently scheduled to close. READ MORE Big Lake agrivoltaics project shows promise of mixing farming, solar power Minnesota Attorney General, consumer advocates challenge Xcel Energy rate increase Residents in Minneapolis ‘green zones’ want more benefits, power as city redraws boundaries Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: East Side of St. Paul , Environmental Justice , Minnesota Pollution Control Agency , Northern Iron , St. Paul Andrew Hazzard ahazzard@sahanjournal.com x Andrew Hazzard is a reporter with Sahan Journal who focuses on climate change and environmental justice issues. After starting his career in daily newspapers in Mississippi and North Dakota, Andrew returned... More by Andrew Hazzard Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close