Proposed laws call for more testing, penalties for Minn. polluters Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ENVIRONMENT Proposed laws call for more testing, harsher penalties for polluters near Minnesota communities of color Representative Fue Lee looks to build on climate justice initiatives passed in 2023, and prevent problem polluters like Northern Metals and Smith Foundry. by Andrew Hazzard February 29, 2024 Updated March 1, 2024 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Steam rises from an exhaust vent during operating hours at the Smith Foundry in south Minneapolis on November 2, 2023. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW New bills proposed Wednesday in the Minnesota Legislature would impose stronger testing requirements on polluting facilities located in environmental justice areas, and increase penalties for facilities that violate state permits. Representative Fue Lee, DFL-Minneapolis, said he was inspired to introduce new legislation due to problems with facilities such as Northern Metals and Smith Foundry in Minneapolis, and Water Gremlin in White Bear Lake. “We don’t really have any consistency in ensuring compliance and enforcement with our air emission limits,” Lee said. Representative Fue Lee, DFL-Minneapolis. Credit: Fue Lee One of his proposed bills ( House File 3579 ) would require large facilities operating under state permits to develop protocols to determine compliance with state and federal standards if they are located in or within a mile of diverse and low-income communities known as environmental justice areas. They would also be required to install regular pollution monitoring systems or conduct annual emissions testing, and report emission levels to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) on a monthly basis. Environmental justice areas are defined by state and federal standards as neighborhoods where more than 40% of residents are people of color or speak a language other than English at home, or more than 35% of households are considered low income. Areas like north Minneapolis, the East Side of St. Paul, and large portions of suburban communities such as Maplewood and Columbia Heights are considered environmental justice areas by the state . Lee’s other bill ( House File 671 ) would increase the fines for facilities that violate their permit, and would increase fines for repeat offenders. It would raise maximum daily fines for air, water, and land pollution from $10,000 to $70,000, and the maximum daily hazardous waste penalty from $25,000 to $80,000. The law would also increase the maximum administrative penalty from $20,000 to $25,000 and no longer allow the MPCA to forgive those penalties for serious violations or at facilities with repeated issues. Lee introduced his bills at the House Environment and Natural Resources Finance and Policy Committee. related sTORIES Surprise EPA inspection finds Clean Air Act violations at St. Paul foundry Neighbors frustrated as EPA says Smith Foundry needs more time to work toward compliance State and federal officials increase monitoring of Smith Foundry as community continues call for closure Increasing information and accountability Today, most emission analysis in Minnesota is done by what regulators call modeling. Regulated facilities record inputs such as what chemicals and machinery are used in their operation and running hours, and the MPCA uses those figures and known pollution variables to project emission levels. Consistent testing could alert regulators earlier to problem facilities and protect public health and the environment, Lee said. His proposed law would apply to major facilities with the potential to emit more than 100 tons of pollutants or 25 tons of hazardous pollutants each year. It would apply to roughly 370 facilities in the state, according to the Minnesota House Research Department. Roxxanne O’Brien, a north Minneapolis resident with Community Members for Environmental Justice, said the proposed law would have been helpful in the fight to evict Northern Metals, a metal recycler from the North Side, by boosting accountability. The facility didn’t want to complete testing, she said, and then lied about the amount it was emitting . “Our communities really paid the price for years,” O’Brien said. Regulators forced Northern Metals to leave north Minneapolis after repeated pollution violations, including findings that the company fabricated its self-reported emissions data to the state. Northern Metals went five years without an air quality evaluation after receiving a permit in 1998. It was another 10 years before the MPCA completed an air quality evaluation at the site. Water Gremlin, a fishing sinker and lead battery terminal producer, emitted massive amounts of the metal degreaser trichloroethylene, resulting in severe health and environmental damage and a $7 million fine from the MPCA in 2019. Subsequent inspections uncovered further violations in 2021. The company filed for bankruptcy in 2023. The Environmental Protection Agency found several Clean Air Act Violations at Smith Foundry in south Minneapolis during a surprise inspection in May 2023. The public learned of violations in November, when Sahan Journal reported on EPA findings that the metal foundry produced nearly double the amount of pollution allowed in its permit. “That’s why I’m bringing this bill forward,” Lee said. Tom Johnson, legislative liaison for the MPCA, said the agency supports the effort to get more information about regulated facilities, but cautioned that the bill may need adjustments. The MPCA would need more staff to go through the monthly reports and is interested in adjusting the definition of major facilities in the bill, he said. Some facilities may emit pollutants that aren’t easy to measure, he added. Some business groups and Republican lawmakers cautioned that the bill could put additional burdens on regulated companies and expressed fears that small businesses could be impacted. Democrats expressed support for the legislation. “There are some bad actors that are out there and the only way you’re going to have them comply is to have a process like this established,” said Representative Peter Fischer, DFL-Maplewood. The bill will be considered for inclusion in the environmental omnibus bill, a large package that typically includes several laws and is often passed toward the end of the Legislative session. READ MORE St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Big Lake agrivoltaics project shows promise of mixing farming, solar power Minnesota Attorney General, consumer advocates challenge Xcel Energy rate increase Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: air pollution , climate , climate justice , Columbia Heights , Environmental Justice , Maplewood , Minneapolis , Minnesota Legislature , pollution , St. Paul Andrew Hazzard ahazzard@sahanjournal.com x Andrew Hazzard is a reporter with Sahan Journal who focuses on climate change and environmental justice issues. After starting his career in daily newspapers in Mississippi and North Dakota, Andrew returned... More by Andrew Hazzard Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close