In a trial that could determine the Minnesota House majority, was your vote counted? &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 19:31 News Story Election 2024 Government & Politics In a trial that could determine the Minnesota House majority, was your vote counted? By Michelle Griffith - December 16, 2024 7:31 pm The Scott County Government Center, where the House District 54A election contest trial was held, seen on Dec. 16, 2024. Photo by Michelle Griffith/Minnesota Reformer. During the first day of a bench trial that could determine control of the Minnesota House, a key question emerged about 20 missing ballots upon which the race and the contested result now hinge: Do we know which Shakopee residents cast those missing ballots? In House District 54A, which includes Shakopee, Rep. Brad Tabke won the race over GOP challenger Aaron Paul by 14 votes. If Tabke prevails, the House will be deadlocked 67-67 between Republicans and Democrats; legislative leaders are currently working on a power-sharing agreement, but it appears stalled while the court case contesting the 54A race proceeds. Paul is contesting the election results, and on the first day of what’s expected to be a two-day trial Monday, lawyers for Tabke and Paul agreed on the basic facts of the case: Twenty ballots went missing around Oct. 17, and the county has done all it can to retrieve them, without success. An official likely threw away the 20 absentee ballots, all of which were delivered in-person at Shakopee City Hall. Attorney David Zoll, on behalf of Tabke, argued that the lawyers can determine who cast the absentee ballots that are now missing and ask them who they voted for. Paul’s attorney Reid Lebeau, however, said it’s impossible to determine with absolute certainty who cast those ballots — therefore, a judge should order a special election. “In the end, this court will be left with a clear choice. Either we restore certainty and confidence in our elections, in the system, or we don’t,” Lebeau said in his opening statement. Zoll said holding a special election would disenfranchise the 20,000 residents who already cast their ballots in the House race. A special election would likely be a mid-winter, low-turnout affair. “History shows only a fraction of the voters will cast their ballots and have their voices heard (in a special election),” Zoll said in his opening statement. “Representative Tabke, on the other hand, believes that this court and the parties should do the work to determine whether the failure to count the 20 ballots …. actually affected the outcome of the election.” Zoll said that had the 20 ballots been counted, Tabke would still have won the race. Prior to the trial, Judge Tracy Perzel issued a ruling that the voters’ identities would be sealed and kept secret. The voters were only identified by a number. The attorneys called witnesses that indicated both sides have identified the 20 people whose votes were lost. They’ve been able to do so because they have a good idea of the day and time of the lost ballots, allowing them to identify the voters by elimination. LeBeau called to the stand six Shakopee voters, who said they were told by LeBeau that their votes were not counted. All six said they voted for Paul. “I feel like I’ve been robbed,” said voter number 17, a man who appeared to be in his 60s. On Monday, testifiers got into the nitty gritty of Scott County election procedure, detailing exactly how they believe the ballots went missing and how they attempted to retrieve them. Scott County Elections Administrator Julie Hanson testified for about three hours about how she discovered a discrepancy in vote totals and tried to fix it. After interviewing other elections officials and consulting the state’s voter rolls, she believes that the ballots were thrown away when they were still in their “secrecy” envelopes. ​​An absentee ballot is in a “secrecy” envelope, which is nested inside the “signature envelope.” Election workers are tasked with approving or declining the signature envelope and, if approved, removing the secrecy envelope and setting it aside, thus preserving the voters’ secret ballot. But in this case, rather than removing the ballots from the secrecy envelopes and running them through the machine, they mistakenly discarded the secrecy envelopes without having removed the ballots, creating a 20-ballot discrepancy between signature envelopes and ballots. Hanson testified that election officials were supposed to keep the secrecy envelopes even after the ballots were run through the machines, but she said she was given the impression that officials had been discarding envelopes after putting ballots into the machines for some time, even before the 2024 general election. Hanson characterized the missing ballot error as “very large” and said it was a big deal that shouldn’t have happened. Additional witnesses are expected Tuesday. It’s unclear when Perzel will issue her ruling. Tabke was present in court Monday, but Paul was not. An election contest in House District 40B is also underway; the residency of winner Rep.-elect Curtis Johnson is being challenged. Though a safe DFL district, Republicans could temporarily control the House if a judge throws out Johnson’s victory and orders a special election. X Republish Post In a trial that could determine the Minnesota House majority, was your vote counted? by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer December 16, 2024 In a trial that could determine the Minnesota House majority, was your vote counted? by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer December 16, 2024 During the first day of a bench trial that could determine control of the Minnesota House, a key question emerged about 20 missing ballots upon which the race and the contested result now hinge: Do we know which Shakopee residents cast those missing ballots? In House District 54A, which includes Shakopee, Rep. Brad Tabke won the race over GOP challenger Aaron Paul by 14 votes. If Tabke prevails, the House will be deadlocked 67-67 between Republicans and Democrats; legislative leaders are currently working on a power-sharing agreement, but it appears stalled while the court case contesting the 54A race proceeds. Paul is contesting the election results, and on the first day of what’s expected to be a two-day trial Monday, lawyers for Tabke and Paul agreed on the basic facts of the case: Twenty ballots went missing around Oct. 17, and the county has done all it can to retrieve them, without success. An official likely threw away the 20 absentee ballots, all of which were delivered in-person at Shakopee City Hall. Attorney David Zoll, on behalf of Tabke, argued that the lawyers can determine who cast the absentee ballots that are now missing and ask them who they voted for. Paul’s attorney Reid Lebeau, however, said it’s impossible to determine with absolute certainty who cast those ballots — therefore, a judge should order a special election. “In the end, this court will be left with a clear choice. Either we restore certainty and confidence in our elections, in the system, or we don’t,” Lebeau said in his opening statement. Zoll said holding a special election would disenfranchise the 20,000 residents who already cast their ballots in the House race. A special election would likely be a mid-winter, low-turnout affair. “History shows only a fraction of the voters will cast their ballots and have their voices heard (in a special election),” Zoll said in his opening statement. “Representative Tabke, on the other hand, believes that this court and the parties should do the work to determine whether the failure to count the 20 ballots …. actually affected the outcome of the election.” Zoll said that had the 20 ballots been counted, Tabke would still have won the race. Prior to the trial, Judge Tracy Perzel issued a ruling that the voters’ identities would be sealed and kept secret. The voters were only identified by a number. The attorneys called witnesses that indicated both sides have identified the 20 people whose votes were lost. They’ve been able to do so because they have a good idea of the day and time of the lost ballots, allowing them to identify the voters by elimination. LeBeau called to the stand six Shakopee voters, who said they were told by LeBeau that their votes were not counted. All six said they voted for Paul. “I feel like I’ve been robbed,” said voter number 17, a man who appeared to be in his 60s. On Monday, testifiers got into the nitty gritty of Scott County election procedure, detailing exactly how they believe the ballots went missing and how they attempted to retrieve them. Scott County Elections Administrator Julie Hanson testified for about three hours about how she discovered a discrepancy in vote totals and tried to fix it. After interviewing other elections officials and consulting the state’s voter rolls, she believes that the ballots were thrown away when they were still in their “secrecy” envelopes. ​​An absentee ballot is in a “secrecy” envelope, which is nested inside the “signature envelope.” Election workers are tasked with approving or declining the signature envelope and, if approved, removing the secrecy envelope and setting it aside, thus preserving the voters’ secret ballot. But in this case, rather than removing the ballots from the secrecy envelopes and running them through the machine, they mistakenly discarded the secrecy envelopes without having removed the ballots, creating a 20-ballot discrepancy between signature envelopes and ballots. Hanson testified that election officials were supposed to keep the secrecy envelopes even after the ballots were run through the machines, but she said she was given the impression that officials had been discarding envelopes after putting ballots into the machines for some time, even before the 2024 general election. Hanson characterized the missing ballot error as “very large” and said it was a big deal that shouldn’t have happened. Additional witnesses are expected Tuesday. It’s unclear when Perzel will issue her ruling. Tabke was present in court Monday, but Paul was not. An election contest in House District 40B is also underway; the residency of winner Rep.-elect Curtis Johnson is being challenged. Though a safe DFL district, Republicans could temporarily control the House if a judge throws out Johnson’s victory and orders a special election. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Lisa Demuth beats Trump-endorsed Mike Lindell in GOP primary for Minnesota governor by Michelle Griffith August 11, 2026 Takeaways from the 2026 Minnesota legislative session by Michelle Griffith May 18, 2026 For Republicans in the Minnesota Legislature, Operation Metro Surge was the DFL's fault by Michelle Griffith March 26, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.