Stakeholders hear more about Duluth&#039;s housing needs for the next decade - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Stakeholders hear more about Duluth's housing needs for the next decade By WDIO --> Need for more housing laid out at a presentation in Duluth Duluth has some housing needs to fill to meet the projected growth, and that was laid out on Tuesday for community stakeholders. The need for more housing in Duluth is something many stakeholders are working on. The Maxfield Housing Study lays out more of the details for those who want to be part of the solutions. A presentation about the study took place on Tuesday morning. Mary Bujold, the lead on the study, shared more about the challenges and opportunities ahead. She said things like innovation and utilizing skinny homes are going to be helpful. With projected growth, the city could need over 8700 new units by 2035. Rachel Johnson, President of APEX, listened to the presentation, because her organization is tied closely with workforce development and housing. "It is essential that we're hearing the same information and getting on the same page so that we can start getting creative and coming up with some of the solutions," she said. Developers have been presented information about housing, but don't always decide to meet the demand. To check out the study yourself: https://duluthmn.gov/media/ge0imvox/2025-duluth-comprehensive-housing-needs-analysis-maxfield-study.pdf For Related Stories: Affordable Housing Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed