National museum of LGBTQI+ history and culture proposed by Wisconsin congressman &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 14:16 News Story Civil Rights DC Bureau National museum of LGBTQI+ history and culture proposed by Wisconsin congressman U.S. Rep. Angie Craig has signed on By Samantha Dietel - November 6, 2023 2:16 pm U.S. Rep. Mark Pocan speaks onstage during the WisDems 2023 Convention on June 10, 2023 in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Photo by Alex Wroblewski/Getty Images. WASHINGTON — Proposed federal legislation could add LGBTQI+ history and culture to the Smithsonian Institution’s museum tapestry. U.S. Rep. Mark Pocan, a Wisconsin Democrat, introduced two bills in late October that would begin the process of creating a National Museum of American LGBTQI+ History and Culture. Both bills would need to be signed into law to create the museum as part of the Smithsonian Institution. The first bill would establish a commission consisting of eight people with backgrounds in museum planning or LGBTQI+ research and culture. This commission would then have 18 months to research and generate its recommendations. According to a Pocan press release , the commission would be required to: “Report recommendations for a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a National Museum of American LGBTQI+ History and Culture.” “Develop a fundraising plan to support the establishment, operation and maintenance of the museum through public contributions.” “Obtain an independent review of this fundraising plan, including an analysis of the resources necessary to fund the construction of the museum and its operations and maintenance without reliance on federal funds.” “Report on the availability and cost of acquiring collections for the museum, identify potential locations for the facility in Washington, D.C., and determine its regional impact on other museums.” “Submit to Congress a legislative plan of action to establish and construct the museum.” The commission would also have to address whether the museum should be associated with the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian , “the world’s largest museum, education and research complex,” currently has 21 museums and the National Zoo. Many of these museums surround the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Congress could take up the second bill once the commission’s work is complete and recommendations are issued. This bill would establish the museum. Preserving history Pocan told States Newsroom that considering the impact and popularity of the Smithsonian museums, it would be an important step to have one for members of the LGBTQI+ community. “It would be great to have one for LGBTQI+ individuals to really talk about the history within the United States, but make sure we don’t repeat some of the mistakes in the past either,” he said. In a press release, Pocan said it is “vital to remember our collective past,” especially at a time when lawmakers across the nation “seek to constrain and repeal existing rights by passing laws that harm LGBTQI+ youth and our community at large.” In recent years, there have been increasing numbers of anti-LGBTQ+ bills across the country. The American Civil Liberties Union is currently tracking over 500 bills from the 2023 legislative session that target LGBTQ+ rights. “As our community faces unprecedented attacks and attempts to erase our history, we must preserve and protect our stories for future generations,” Pocan said in the press release. From Stonewall to historical measures around marriage equality, there are all kinds of stories to honor in a Smithsonian museum, Pocan told States Newsroom. The Stonewall riots began June 28, 1969, after police raided the Stonewall Inn, a gay club in New York City. It is considered a pivotal moment in the fight for gay rights in the U.S. “And honestly, right now, I think we might be another one of those periods with more attacks in Congress and state legislatures on the community,” Pocan said. He said these recent attacks “will probably be part of what we look back at someday and look at the discrimination that some people are trying to put onto people simply for who they love.” Pocan’s legislation arrives as Speaker of the House Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican who has long opposed same-sex marriage, has just taken office. When asked if he was concerned about the future of this legislation under Johnson’s speakership, Pocan said he thinks it is “to be determined.” “I’m hoping that this won’t have to be an exhibit in the museum of more recent attacks,” Pocan said. “I’m hoping that he will govern as speaker of the House, which means he represents Democrats as well as Republicans as speaker, and that he won’t continue to take Congress down a path just where his personal beliefs may be.” All eight openly LGBTQI+ co-chairs of the Equality Caucus joined Pocan in introducing the legislation. These members include Democratic Reps. Mark Takano of California, Sharice Davids of Kansas, Robert Garcia of California, Becca Balint of Vermont, Ritchie Torres of New York, Chris Pappas of New Hampshire, Angie Craig of Minnesota and Eric Sorensen of Illinois. Pocan said it was important to be inclusive when introducing his legislation. “Our mere presence in Congress is, in some ways, part of that history, and trying to make sure that we have a seat at the table where decisions are being made,” Pocan said. “So it’s important that every single person could be a part of that.” X Republish Post National museum of LGBTQI+ history and culture proposed by Wisconsin congressman by Samantha Dietel, Minnesota Reformer November 6, 2023 National museum of LGBTQI+ history and culture proposed by Wisconsin congressman by Samantha Dietel, Minnesota Reformer November 6, 2023 WASHINGTON — Proposed federal legislation could add LGBTQI+ history and culture to the Smithsonian Institution’s museum tapestry. U.S. Rep. Mark Pocan, a Wisconsin Democrat, introduced two bills in late October that would begin the process of creating a National Museum of American LGBTQI+ History and Culture. Both bills would need to be signed into law to create the museum as part of the Smithsonian Institution. The first bill would establish a commission consisting of eight people with backgrounds in museum planning or LGBTQI+ research and culture. This commission would then have 18 months to research and generate its recommendations. According to a Pocan press release , the commission would be required to: “Report recommendations for a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a National Museum of American LGBTQI+ History and Culture.” “Develop a fundraising plan to support the establishment, operation and maintenance of the museum through public contributions.” “Obtain an independent review of this fundraising plan, including an analysis of the resources necessary to fund the construction of the museum and its operations and maintenance without reliance on federal funds.” “Report on the availability and cost of acquiring collections for the museum, identify potential locations for the facility in Washington, D.C., and determine its regional impact on other museums.” “Submit to Congress a legislative plan of action to establish and construct the museum.” The commission would also have to address whether the museum should be associated with the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian , “the world’s largest museum, education and research complex,” currently has 21 museums and the National Zoo. Many of these museums surround the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Congress could take up the second bill once the commission’s work is complete and recommendations are issued. This bill would establish the museum. Preserving history Pocan told States Newsroom that considering the impact and popularity of the Smithsonian museums, it would be an important step to have one for members of the LGBTQI+ community. “It would be great to have one for LGBTQI+ individuals to really talk about the history within the United States, but make sure we don’t repeat some of the mistakes in the past either,” he said. In a press release, Pocan said it is “vital to remember our collective past,” especially at a time when lawmakers across the nation “seek to constrain and repeal existing rights by passing laws that harm LGBTQI+ youth and our community at large.” In recent years, there have been increasing numbers of anti-LGBTQ+ bills across the country. The American Civil Liberties Union is currently tracking over 500 bills from the 2023 legislative session that target LGBTQ+ rights. “As our community faces unprecedented attacks and attempts to erase our history, we must preserve and protect our stories for future generations,” Pocan said in the press release. From Stonewall to historical measures around marriage equality, there are all kinds of stories to honor in a Smithsonian museum, Pocan told States Newsroom. The Stonewall riots began June 28, 1969, after police raided the Stonewall Inn, a gay club in New York City. It is considered a pivotal moment in the fight for gay rights in the U.S. “And honestly, right now, I think we might be another one of those periods with more attacks in Congress and state legislatures on the community,” Pocan said. He said these recent attacks “will probably be part of what we look back at someday and look at the discrimination that some people are trying to put onto people simply for who they love.” Pocan’s legislation arrives as Speaker of the House Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican who has long opposed same-sex marriage, has just taken office. When asked if he was concerned about the future of this legislation under Johnson’s speakership, Pocan said he thinks it is “to be determined.” “I’m hoping that this won’t have to be an exhibit in the museum of more recent attacks,” Pocan said. “I’m hoping that he will govern as speaker of the House, which means he represents Democrats as well as Republicans as speaker, and that he won’t continue to take Congress down a path just where his personal beliefs may be.” All eight openly LGBTQI+ co-chairs of the Equality Caucus joined Pocan in introducing the legislation. These members include Democratic Reps. Mark Takano of California, Sharice Davids of Kansas, Robert Garcia of California, Becca Balint of Vermont, Ritchie Torres of New York, Chris Pappas of New Hampshire, Angie Craig of Minnesota and Eric Sorensen of Illinois. Pocan said it was important to be inclusive when introducing his legislation. “Our mere presence in Congress is, in some ways, part of that history, and trying to make sure that we have a seat at the table where decisions are being made,” Pocan said. “So it’s important that every single person could be a part of that.” Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Samantha Dietel Samantha Dietel is a reporter intern in Washington, D.C. She is pursuing a degree in journalism at the University of Missouri-Columbia. She has previously covered the Missouri legislature in Jefferson City as a reporter for the Columbia Missourian. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom U.S. House GOP in spending bills takes aim at federal LGBTQ, racial equity policies by Jacob Fischler November 6, 2023 Congress brought back earmarks. Now they’re one more point of drama in a divided House. by Jennifer Shutt August 14, 2023 The hypnotherapist who helped fuel the never-ending hunt for election fraud in Wisconsin by Megan O’Matz, ProPublica May 24, 2022 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.