St. Paul swears in historic all-female, racially diverse city council Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in POLITICS Historic all-female St. Paul City Council sworn in as hundreds cheer on Six of the seven City Council members are also people of color, making it St. Paul’s most racially diverse council. by Hibah Ansari January 9, 2024 January 9, 2024 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook From left to right: Mitra Jalali, Anika Bowie, Rebecca Noecker, Saura Jost, Hwa Jeong Kim, Nelsie Yang, and Cheniqua Johnson stand for the U.S. national anthem on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, during their swearing-in ceremony as St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Seven women made history as they took their oaths of office Tuesday to serve on St. Paul’s first all-women City Council. Excitement filled The Ordway theater as Anika Bowie, Rebecca Noecker, Saura Jost, Mitra Jalali, Cheniqua Johnson, Nelsie Yang, and Hwa Jeong Kim began their four-year terms. Jalali, who will serve as council president, spoke at the event. “Our work at City Hall is not only to ensure amazing city services,” Jalali said. “This historic council was sent to do historic work, to play our part in rectifying the past wrongs that still impact our community.” I’m at The Ordway where seven council members will soon be sworn into office as St. Paul’s first all-women city council. Story soon for @SahanJournal pic.twitter.com/0X506OVXas — Hibah Ansari (@AnsariHibah) January 9, 2024 Hundreds gathered to witness the event, which included a color guard ceremony, a performance of “Lift Every Voice and Sing,” spoken word, and speeches from Lieutenant Governor Peggy Flanagan, St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter, and others. “While this is historic, it should also simply be the way it is—the norm,” Flanagan said. “Even though these systems were not built for women, especially women of color, we are making our voices heard every single day.” All of the council members are under the age of 40, and six out of the seven are people of color, making it the most racially diverse City Council in St. Paul history. In a statement issued after the election in November , the women called the new council the youngest and most progressive in the city’s history. Liz Young, a St. Paul resident and public policy advisor for Hennepin County, attended the event wearing a T-shirt with a quote from actor Sandra Oh that said, “It’s an honor just to be Asian.” “I’m really excited about it,” said Young, who previously worked for Women Winning, an organization that promotes the election of pro-choice women to political office. “It feels like power in St. Paul has been slow to change and diversify and to evolve, so this feels really good.” related sTORIES Historic all-female St. Paul City Council is a sign of growing trend, researcher says Historic all-female City Council elected in St. Paul after Anika Bowie, Cheniqua Johnson declared winners St. Paul is not the first city to elect an all-women council, but is believed to be one of the largest U.S. cities to accomplish that, drawing widespread media attention, including from NBC News . Incumbents Jalali won in Ward 4, Yang in Ward 6, and Noecker in Ward 2. Bowie, 31, who won in Ward 1, is an entrepreneur and lives in the Frogtown neighborhood. Jost, 35, is a civil engineer and DFL organizer who lives in the Mac-Groveland neighborhood. She will represent Ward 3. Johnson, 28, is a program officer at the Saint Paul & Minnesota Foundation, and lives in the Dayton’s Bluff neighborhood. She will represent Ward 7 Kim, 38, is the executive director of a nonprofit, and lives in the North End neighborhood. She’s an advocate for electing progressive women, women of color, and LGBTQ women to public office. She will represent Ward 5. Members of St. Paul's historic all-women City Council huddle on stage prior to getting sworn in at the Ordway Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday, January 9, 2024. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Family and friends celebrate with Cheniqua Johnson (bottom center) after she completed her oath of office on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, as a member of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Nelsie Yang (bottom right) takes the oath of office on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, as a member of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Surrounded by friends and family, Hwa Jeong Kim (center) takes the oath of office on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, as a member of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Mitra Jalali (right) is sworn in on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, as president of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Newly sworn-in St. Paul Council Member Saura Jost (center) picks up her son on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, during the inauguration of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Rebecca Noecker (center) shakes hands with City Clerk Shari Moore on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, after she is sworn in as a member of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Anika Bowie (right) celebrates with family and friends on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, after being sworn in as a member of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter (left) embraces new City Council President Mitra Jalali (right) as St. Paul's historic all-female City Council is sworn in on Tuesday, January 9, 2024. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Poet Muna Abdulahi (center) gives a spoken word tribute during the January 9, 2024, inauguration of St. Paul's historic all-female City Council. The new council sits behind her. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal The Blazing Saphirre dance group of the Dao Lan Dance School perform after St. Paul's new City Council is sworn in at the Ordway Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday, January 9, 2024. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Noecker closed the swearing-in ceremony with a speech about the community's role in the new council's work. “Think about the people outside of this room—the people in your neighborhood, at your workplace, your school—the people you interact with every day,” Noecker said. “We’ve been talking a lot about the people on the stage, but this community is what this is all about.” In a joint statement the newly elected council members issued after the elections, the group listed their priorities as rent stabilization, creating affordable housing, community wealth-building, climate resilience, community safety, and workers’ rights. Several women who attended Tuesday's swearing-in ceremony said they were inspired by the new council. “I’m very excited for this new bridge we’re about to cross,” said Damaris Jones, the first Miss Juneteenth to represent Minnesota. “Young hearts like myself, they’re going to be really excited to see more girls that look like them that are doing such big things.” St. Paul resident Laverne McCartney Knighton, area development director for the United Negro College Fund, said the council's youth is also one of its strengths. “It’s historical and it really shouldn’t have to be. It is time for women to be in power,” she said. “This is a young council that is really going to bring new ideas and new innovation.” Anjuli Cameron, chief executive officer of SEWA-AIFW, a nonprofit that serves Minnesota's South Asian community, highlighted the new council members' professional accomplishments and previous contributions to their communities. “Not only are they all female leaders, but they also have an incredible track record behind them of work that they've done in communities around Minnesota and around St. Paul,” Cameron said. A member of Progressive Baptist Church performs "Lift Every Voice and Sing" before St. Paul's historic all-female City Council was sworn in on Tuesday, January 9, 2024. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal READ MORE Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: St. Paul City Council , The Ordway Hibah Ansari hansari@sahanjournal.com x linkedin Hibah Ansari was a reporter for Sahan Journal covering immigration and politics. She was named the 2022 Young Journalist of the Year by the Minnesota Society of Professional Journalists. She’s a graduate... More by Hibah Ansari Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close