We asked young Minnesotans, ‘Is college still worth it?’ Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL We asked young Minnesotans, ‘Is college still worth it?’ Go to college. Start a business. Learn a trade. In a live community conversation, Sahan Journal and MPR News talked to students and education counselors about how to pick the right path after high school. by Hannah Ihekoronye October 30, 2025 Updated November 22, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Going to high school in Coon Rapids, Jalayah Johnson found it hard to sit still. Her mind didn’t want to stay on any one topic. At the same time, Johnson said, “I always found interest in building things.” Eventually, school staff steered her toward a dedicated program at the Finishing Trades Institute of the Upper Midwest. There, Johnson learned technical skills including industrial painting, commercial painting, drywall and taping. She ultimately decided to specialize in glazing and glasswork – a less sticky, messy trade than painting. Today, Johnson is an apprentice glazer for the Empire House , a women-owned-and-operated commercial glass company in Mounds View, Minnesota. “It’s really fun. It’s really helpful,” Johnson said. She can be herself at work – and succeed. Johnson’s experience highlights a question that faces many high-school students in Minnesota: Is college still worth it? The answer depends on whom you ask. Students cite a variety of challenges to creating post-secondary plans: financial constraints, family pressures, mental health challenges, and a general fatigue with classroom learning. Johnson was one of five panelists who shared their experiences and advice on how to choose the right path after high school, at a community conversation entitled, “Is College Still Worth It?” The conversation was hosted by Sahan digital producer Alberto Villafan and MPR News host Nina Moini. A recording of the conversation will air Monday, Nov. 3 at 9 a.m., streaming on mprnews.org or airing on the radio at 91.1 FM in the Twin Cities metro. A video of the event will The event, hosted on October 9 at Saint Paul Neighborhood Network , gathered a group of young people and education professionals to share their experiences, knowledge and advice. The panelists included, Frida Torres Macal , an independent social media marketer and the founder of That Social Invite . Marquan Harper , a sophomore at the University of St. Thomas double majoring in digital media arts and marketing management. Jalayah Johnson , who is enrolled at the Finishing Trades Institute of the Upper Midwest as a second-year glazer apprentice for the Empire House . Ali Osman , a counselor at South High School in Minneapolis. Jessica Yang, the senior implementation manager at the Get Ready GEAR UP Minnesota Program , administered through the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. ‘There is no single path’ The conversation started with young people sharing their path to where they are now. Marquan Harper, a sophomore at the University of St. Thomas, felt a family expectation to go to college. But he also had the desire to learn. Harper is double majoring in digital media arts and marketing management. “I think that college is probably the most safe environment for me to be developmentally at this time in my life right now,” Harper said. Marquan Harper shares his experiences balancing his undergraduate education at University of St. Thomas and running his events company, Ador Hospitality on Thursday, Oct. 9, in St. Paul. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal It helps that Harper received a full-ride scholarship to St. Thomas. And he’s already starting leveraging his learnings and connections to improve his business: Harper is also the founder of Ador Hospitality , an events company for young people in the Twin Cities. That entrepreneurial path doesn’t have to include a stop at college. Frida Torres Macal, founder of the That Social Invite , always thought she would attend college. But once she began weighing her options, that plan changed. “I started to get um more educated,” Macal said. “What does the curriculum actually look like? What does that investment actually look like?” Those questions led Macal to a different course. “I would like to have an experience that I can get more hands-on work experience sooner rather than later,” she said. Macal enrolled online for a digital marketing degree, but never finished it. Instead, on her own, she picked up social media marketing skills. And she started managing her mom’s business account. Over social media, she won her first (non-mom) client: a juice bar owner in Atlanta. Then, she launched her business That Social Invite , an agency helping women-owned businesses and professionals grow their brands through content and digital strategy. Ali Osman, a counselor at South High School in Minneapolis, details how he helps students determine a post-high school plan that suits their aspirations on Thursday, Oct. 9, in St. Paul. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Navigating all the pressures Ali Osman, a counselor at South High School in Minneapolis, uses an individualized approach to help students create their post-secondary plans. “There is no single path,” he said. “We always prioritize students' needs and what they want.” Students, he stresses, can tap into a range of resources to pay for college, especially through scholarships. (Families will also need to tackle the Federal Application for Federal Student Aid — better known FAFSA.) But Osman makes a point of saying that students don’t need to attend college after high school. “When you have the right mindset, that’s when you can go and start college, or (a) career — whatever you want to decide,” Osman said. Osman’s sentiments were echoed by Jessica Yang, the senior implementation manager of Get Ready GEAR UP Minnesota Program . In her role, she works with districts and schools across the state to assist students and families with post-secondary and career options. That may include academic support, financial-aid guidance, and partnerships. The program begins working with students in middle school, sixth and seventh grades Sometimes those next steps are unclear. Here, Yang emphasizes the importance for students to give themselves grace. These family decisions are taking place against a backdrop of turmoil in higher education and the job market. Minnesota State Colleges and Universities saw a jump in enrollment this fall of nearly 7 percent , compared to last spring. Many factors are contributing to enrollment increases, including the North Star Promise . This new program, for families earning less than $80,000 a year, makes tuition free at a wide variety of Minnesota’s public and Tribal campuses. Would you do it again? Given the many options available after high school graduation, we asked our panelists, “Would you make the same post-secondary decision again?” “Yes. I would absolutely take the same path,” said Macal, the social-media entrepreneur. Macal emphasized the importance of all the skills she’s learned by starting her own business She expressed gratitude for all the connections she has gained along the way. Most important, she’s proud that she stuck to her passion and believed in herself. Frida Torres Macal elected to dive into entrepreneurship after graduating high school and found social media company That Social Invite . During a Sahan Journal Community Conversation on Oct. 9, she details her path through independent labor. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Still, running a business at a younger age demands a lot of focus. “Going into college, you do have a sense of community,” she said. That network can help students learn how to navigate challenges and remain disciplined. Macal had to learn how to do it herself. Harper, the sophomore at St. Thomas, also feels satisfied with his direction. “I don’t regret a thing,” he said. However, he stressed that school comes with time-management pressures and mental-health challenges. “There’s still a level of expectation that I have to go and perform in order to keep my scholarship,” Harper said. For many, the lure of attending college involves all the stuff that goes on outside the classroom. “I definitely wish I had that kind of experience of getting to know people my age and connecting with younger generations,” Johnson, the apprentice glazer, said. “I definitely do think I missed out on what it feels like to be in your 20s.” That is, “a middle ground between adulting and having the little bit of freedom you have left.” However, Johnson doesn’t regret her decision. “It made me [the] person who I am today.” Where to watch and hear the conversation You can watch the livestream recording on Sahan Journal’s YouTube page here . At 9 a.m. Monday, Nov. 3, the community conversation will air on “ MPR News with Angela Davis ,” on 91.1 FM (in the Twin Cities area), or mprnews.org . Please check back and follow our social media for any updates to the above broadcasts. Graduating high school in Minnesota? Check out these post-secondary resources Learn more about Minnesota Goes to College. https://mngoestocollege.mn.gov/mngoestocollege Learn more about Direct Admissions and see if your high school is participating. https://ohe.mn.gov/outreach-professional-resources/high-school-resources/direct-admissions-minnesota Explore and compare colleges in Minnesota on MyHigherEdu. https://myhighered.mn.gov/ Learn more about opportunities for at-risk youth to get work experience. https://mn.gov/deed/programs-services/office-youth-development/youth-programs/ Explore and compare colleges in the U.S. on College Scorecard. https://collegescorecard.ed.gov/ Learn more about financial aid (how to pay for college). https://ohe.mn.gov/financial-aid-programs Request additional information on ‘Choosing a Career Pathway’ and ‘Paying for College’ (printed). https://ohe.mn.gov/outreach-professional-resources/high-school-resources/college-preparation-publications Learn more about opportunities for youth to get work experience. https://careerforce.mn.gov/programs-services/youth-employment READ MORE ‘Everybody Needs Somewhere to Live’: Sahan Journal and Mixed Blood Theatre want to hear your stories about housing in Minnesota Jam with Sahan Journal at the Minnesota State Fair Ready to pick the next Hennepin County Attorney? We’ve got a quiz to help! Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: college , college admissions , community conversation recap , small business Hannah Ihekoronye hihekoronye@sahanjournal.com x linkedin Hannah Ihekoronye is the community engagement manager at Sahan Journal. She bridges the newsroom with the community. In her role, she works on a variety of projects, including community outreach, community... More by Hannah Ihekoronye Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close