Bush Foundation celebrates the 2025 Bush Fellows Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Sponsored Content Learn More Advertiser content: This content was commissioned and paid for by The Bush Foundation. The news and editorial staff of Sahan Journal had no role in the creation or production of this story. Bush Foundation celebrates the 2025 Bush Fellows Leaders who are making the region better for everyone Sponsored content by The Bush Foundation June 23, 2025 June 16, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Credit: Caroline Yang We’re always excited to share the new class of Bush Fellows each year—because we know that change only happens when people make it happen. Bush Fellows have bold visions, and their leadership is shaping communities across the region. This year, Fellows are working on a wide range of issues such as decreasing stigma and increasing supports for people with autism, advocating for the rights and needs of amputees, providing doula care to people with cancer and building low-cost housing that considers our changing climate and environment. And they all have plans to help them think bigger and think differently about what is possible, including learning from work around the globe to bring wisdom back to the region. This includes learning about language preservation efforts in Scandinavia to understanding school discipline in Japan. Up to 30 Bush Fellows are selected each year to receive up to $150,000 to support their self-designed leadership plan. Fellows can come from any sector—including business, nonprofit and government. What sets them apart is their bold vision for what is possible and their commitment to making it real. Learn more about the 2025 Bush Fellows below! Jeffrey Aguy (Maple Grove, MN) is reimagining how capital can unlock opportunity for communities historically left out of economic growth. Mohamed Ahmed (St. Paul, MN) is working to ensure equitable access to prosthetic care for underserved communities, both in Minnesota and globally. Arif Bakar (Blaine, MN) is building educational environments that affirm the cultural identity and multilingualism of immigrant and refugee students. Chanda Smith Baker (Minneapolis, MN) is cultivating a new model of leadership that centers authenticity, liberation and community-rooted power. Talaya Dendy (Hastings, MN) is working to transform the cancer care experience by centering emotional wellness resilience alongside medical treatment. Naima Dhore (Dalbo, MN) is championing land access, food sovereignty, and culturally rooted farming practices for immigrant and refugee communities. Sarah Dixon-Hackey (West Fargo, ND) is changing the conversation around mental health for BIPOC, refugee, and immigrant communities in North Dakota. Georgia Fort is (St. Paul, MN) reshaping the media landscape to center community and representation. James Garrett Jr. (St. Paul, MN) is using architecture as a tool for equity, cultural expression, and community transformation. Nathaniel Gibbs (Maple Grove, MN) is reimagining school leadership to be more inclusive, culturally responsive and human-centered. Jason Grueneich (Bismark, ND) is fighting stigma and building systems of support for people living with HIV in North Dakota. Ma Elena Gutierrez (Sauk Rapids, MN) is organizing for dignity, justice, and power in Minnesota’s immigrant communities. Anisa Hagi-Mohamed (Bloomington, MN) is reshaping how Somali and East African communities understand and talk about autism. Leya Hale (West St. Paul, MN | Sisseton-Wahpeton Oyate and Dine Nations) is indigenizing filmmaking by rooting the creative process in Indigenous language, kinship and worldview. Kelis Houston (Minneapolis, MN) is transforming the child welfare system by centering family preservation, racial equity and community accountability. Fatimah Hussein (Minneapolis, MN) is breaking barriers for Muslim girls and women in sports. Carl D. Johnson (St. Paul, MN) is transforming food access and economic opportunity on St. Paul’s East Side through faith-rooted leadership and community ownership. Marvis Kilgore (St. Paul, MN) is closing the equity gap in education by increasing the presence and power of Black male educators. John Little (Vermillion, SD | Standing Rock Sioux Tribe) is advancing equity in higher education for Native students through culturally grounded mentorship and systemic change. Maychee Mua (Cottage Grove, MN) is reimagining autism advocacy through a culturally attuned and healing-centered lens. Deqa Muhidin (Apple Valley, MN) is advancing language justice and cultural preservation through education. Akram Osman (Elysian, MN) is working to make schools more inclusive, equitable and affirming for all students. Richard Pallay III (Fargo, ND) is creating spaces of joy, healing and cultural connection through arts-based community building. Lori Pourier (Hermosa, SD | Oglala Lakota Nation) is building a national arts ecosystem rooted in Native identity, creativity, and sovereignty. Elvis Rivera (Brooklyn Park, MN) is working to close the racial wealth gap by bringing financial knowledge and tools to communities that have been historically excluded from economic opportunity. Curtis Rogers (White Earth Nation) is strengthening Tribal governance through culturally grounded leadership and long-term systems thinking. Amáda Márquez Simula (Columbia Heights, MN) is building a model of inclusive, equity-driven city leadership rooted in cultural celebration and community connection. Megan Treuer (Esko, MN | Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe) is revitalizing Indigenous justice by returning Tribal court systems to their cultural and spiritual roots. Muhidin Warfa (Columbia Heights, MN) is transforming education by honoring the linguistic and cultural identities of multilingual learners. MORE SPONSORED CONTENT BY THE BUSH FOUNDATION Sponsored Content Supporting leaders to make our region better for everyone This summer we announced the 2026 Bush Fellows, a group of 30 community leaders from around the region who have been making things happen in their communities and have a plan for their Fellowship that will help them spark bigger, bolder change. We’ve been featuring the work of each Fellow all summer long on social… Sponsored content by The Bush Foundation Sponsored Content Sharing Insights About the Bush Fellowship Program Adora Land is a grantmaking director at the Bush Foundation who leads the Bush Fellowship program, supporting community leaders across our region. We asked Adora for her insights about the selection process and what makes the Fellowship unique. What are some of the guiding principles that shape the Bush Fellowship selection process? We're looking for… Sponsored content by The Bush Foundation Sponsored Content Meet the nine organizations selected as 2025 Bush Prize honorees! The Bush Foundation celebrates and supports creative problem solving across the region through the Bush Prize. Bush Prize honorees are doing big things in partnership with their communities. They are organizations that have a strong track record of community problem solving and work with others to make the region better for everyone. The Bush Prize… Sponsored content by The Bush Foundation Sponsored content by The Bush Foundation The Bush Foundation invests in great ideas and the people who power them in Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and the 23 Native nations that share the same geography. Established in 1953 by 3M Executive Archibald Bush and his wife Edyth, the Foundation supports organizations and people who think bigger and think differently about what is possible in their communities. The Foundation works to inspire and support creative problem solving — within and across sectors — to make the region better for everyone. Learn more about The Bush Foundation Tagged: business , fellows , leadership Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Gift this article Close Link Copy link