JJ Legacy School finds new home Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in EDUCATION A new home: JJ Legacy School will move to Family Baptist Church After a rental dispute that revealed holes in state law and resulted in the school's eviction, the Montessori charter school will move to another church in north Minneapolis. “We get to start new," said Tonicia Abdur Salaam, the head of school. by Becky Z. Dernbach August 21, 2023 August 21, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook JJ Legacy School, a Montessori charter school in north Minneapolis, will move into Family Baptist Church before classes start September 5. The move comes after a rental dispute and eviction that showed holes in state law. Credit: David Pierini | North News Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW JJ Legacy School has a new home. Starting this fall, JJ Legacy, a Montessori charter school that serves about 110 kids from prekindergarten through sixth grade, will be located at Family Baptist Church in north Minneapolis. The announcement, two weeks before the first day of school, comes after a stressful summer that included an eviction from the Catholic church that previously housed the school and another rental agreement falling through. “It's pretty exciting,” said Tonicia Abdur Salaam, the head of school. “We get to start new.” The leaders of Legacy of Dr. Josie R. Johnson Montessori School—JJ Legacy for short—said they stopped paying rent last year in a last-ditch effort to force their landlord, Our Lady of Victory Catholic Church, to make much-needed repairs. They also said they could not apply for lease aid from the state because Our Lady of Victory did not provide them with a current lease. The standoff ended in housing court, where Our Lady of Victory won an eviction order. Over the years, JJ Legacy School leaders said, ceilings collapsed due to a leaky roof. Most school bathrooms and some classrooms became unusable due to damage. In a previous statement to Sahan Journal, Father Michael Tix, the parochial administrator of Our Lady of Victory, said the church had made some repairs, but declined to specify which ones. He added that not receiving rent for more than a year threatened the viability of the parish. “There were continued misunderstandings about who was responsible for what, and that was never fully resolved,” Tix said. PREVIOUS COVERAGE At a north Minneapolis charter school, ceilings collapsed and bathrooms broke down. Why didn't anyone step in? JJ Legacy School in north Minneapolis evicted over rental dispute with church A Sahan Journal investigation found that the JJ Legacy rental dispute revealed holes in state law. Minnesota does not allow charter schools to own property. But the state also does not provide specific tenant rights in commercial leases—including for schools. If it is not clear who is responsible for a specific repair, a jury may have to decide responsibility if the dispute ends up in court. The state provides funding for charter schools to pay rent. But that money cannot be used either to make repairs in an existing building or to convert a new building into a suitable school. And at charter schools, the people responsible for navigating this murky legal terrain are school board members, who are typically volunteers with no training in commercial lease negotiation. Family Baptist Church, the school’s new landlord, was founded in 1996, and says it strives “to become a healthy church that plants and restores churches in the Twin Cities”—that is, to create new churches and strengthen existing ones. Abdur Salaam described Family Baptist Church as “extremely collaborative.” Even before they signed the lease on Friday, Family Baptist Church allowed JJ Legacy to hold its training week in the new space, she said. Staff walked through the classrooms, which previously held other charter schools, and started mapping out what would go where. Abdur Salaam was pleased to see amenities like whiteboards and multiple electrical outlets in each classroom, which Our Lady of Victory did not have. She hopes to collaborate with other organizations nearby, like the Jerry Gamble Boys & Girls Club, the YMCA, and a fellow charter school, the Minnesota Internship Center. And she expressed gratitude for her staff, who helped keep the school going while Abdur Salaam has been tending to her husband in hospice care. Some families have decided to leave, always a risk when a school moves, Abdur Salaam said. Some have expressed concern about safety. The school is staying in north Minneapolis, a priority for school officials, but it will now be in a different neighborhood three and a half miles away. But she said she’s talked to other nearby organizations who have locked down their buildings for safety reasons only three times since 2016. “I locked the other building at least 10 times in the last couple of years, so in that regard we had more issues in our old location,” she said. Still, she said, the school was lining up security precautions. “We're always going to make sure our children are protected and well,” she said. “The better job we do at that, the more the community can heal.” She’d like a public apology from Our Lady of Victory, she said. But she’s focused on moving into the new space. “Doesn't matter how great your pedagogy is, doesn't matter how much impact you have on children and families—none of that matters if you don't have a roof over your head to do the things you know work right,” she said. “Our children deserve beautiful spaces just like anyone else's children. I'm not going to apologize for that.” READ MORE Marijuana is legal in Minnesota, but legal experts urge caution for immigrants. Minnesota queens of color seek opportunities to shine amid national anti-drag blitz The long road back from prison: For one Minnesotan, that includes home ownership, a family, a career – and finally, the ballot. Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Charter schools , JJ Legacy School Becky Z. Dernbach bdernbach@sahanjournal.com x Becky Z. Dernbach is the education reporter for Sahan Journal. Becky graduated from Carleton College in 2008, just in time for the economy to crash. She worked many jobs before going into journalism, including... More by Becky Z. Dernbach Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close