In Alexandria, federal and local policy decisions make homeownership possible &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 16:20 News Story Housing & Transportation In Alexandria, federal and local policy decisions make homeownership possible By Madison McVan - August 7, 2025 4:20 pm Habitat for Humanity volunteers work on a house in the Summer Meadows development in Alexandria on Aug. 7, 2025. (Photo by Madison McVan/Minnesota Reformer) ALEXANDRIA — Brittany Johnson is preparing to move her three children from their two-bedroom apartment to a brand-new four bedroom home with big windows, bordered by shade trees. Johnson is a single mother who works two jobs to support her children, including a 5-year-old daughter with complex medical needs who underwent a heart transplant as an infant. She’s becoming a homeowner thanks to Habitat for Humanity of Douglas County and a complex web of local and federal programs that are facilitating the construction of 42 new affordable homes in Alexandria. Minnesota is facing a housing shortage, and the resulting higher housing costs are harming low-income residents the most. One in four Douglas County residents spend more than 30% of their income on housing, meaning they are “cost-burdened” by their rent or mortgage, said Lori Anderson, executive director of Habitat for Humanity of Douglas County. Johnson’s new home is in a new neighborhood called Summer Meadows, the first affordable housing development in Alexandria since 2002. She opened her door on Thursday to U.S. Sen. Tina Smith, who toured the neighborhood to see the impact of federal funding on affordable housing. Sen. Tina Smith discusses the federal government's role in rural housing development at the Summer Meadows development in Alexandria on Aug. 7, 2025. (Photo by Madison McVan/Minnesota Reformer) Developers seeking to build new affordable housing projects often face obstacles to construction. Like market-rate developers, local zoning laws that heavily restrict multifamily developments or require certain lot or square footage can drive up the price of the home, pricing out the prospective buyers. Summer Meadows was initially zoned for 25 homes but Alexandria made an exception to allow 42 homes to be built, which helped the project pencil out. Smith has worked to encourage cities to allow more multifamily developments and smaller, affordable homes. And financing affordable projects is also a challenge, requiring a mix of private and government-backed loans, tax credits and other sources — a complex, interconnected web that can fall apart if a project is delayed or if one funding source falls through. Key funding for Summer Meadows comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture loans and a local tax increment financing district. USDA’s Rural Development division awarded Habitat a $1.6 million site loan to finance the development of the lots. The USDA is also providing qualified homebuyers with subsidized loans. “It allows us to keep our monthly mortgage at an affordable rate so we can avidly enjoy our lives in a safe, stable and affordable home,” Johnson said. The Alexandria City Council designated the neighborhood as a tax increment financing district, which will direct the residents' property taxes back to Habitat for Humanity. Habitat for Humanity paid for the neighborhood’s streets, sewer, water, sidewalks and infrastructure; the organization will recoup its costs via homeowners’ property taxes. Smith is a lead author of the bipartisan Rural Housing Service Reform Act, which was included in a housing package that unanimously passed the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on July 29. Smith’s bill would make several technical changes to the USDA programs that support housing development to streamline and speed up the process. “Even though it's hard to spot the bipartisanship in Washington right now, I do really believe that there is a bipartisan interest and concern and desire to take action around how to address this housing supply and housing affordability crisis,” Smith said. X Republish Post In Alexandria, federal and local policy decisions make homeownership possible by Madison McVan, Minnesota Reformer August 7, 2025 In Alexandria, federal and local policy decisions make homeownership possible by Madison McVan, Minnesota Reformer August 7, 2025 ALEXANDRIA — Brittany Johnson is preparing to move her three children from their two-bedroom apartment to a brand-new four bedroom home with big windows, bordered by shade trees. Johnson is a single mother who works two jobs to support her children, including a 5-year-old daughter with complex medical needs who underwent a heart transplant as an infant. She’s becoming a homeowner thanks to Habitat for Humanity of Douglas County and a complex web of local and federal programs that are facilitating the construction of 42 new affordable homes in Alexandria. Minnesota is facing a housing shortage, and the resulting higher housing costs are harming low-income residents the most. One in four Douglas County residents spend more than 30% of their income on housing, meaning they are “cost-burdened” by their rent or mortgage, said Lori Anderson, executive director of Habitat for Humanity of Douglas County. Johnson’s new home is in a new neighborhood called Summer Meadows, the first affordable housing development in Alexandria since 2002. She opened her door on Thursday to U.S. Sen. Tina Smith, who toured the neighborhood to see the impact of federal funding on affordable housing. Developers seeking to build new affordable housing projects often face obstacles to construction. Like market-rate developers, local zoning laws that heavily restrict multifamily developments or require certain lot or square footage can drive up the price of the home, pricing out the prospective buyers. Summer Meadows was initially zoned for 25 homes but Alexandria made an exception to allow 42 homes to be built, which helped the project pencil out. Smith has worked to encourage cities to allow more multifamily developments and smaller, affordable homes. And financing affordable projects is also a challenge, requiring a mix of private and government-backed loans, tax credits and other sources — a complex, interconnected web that can fall apart if a project is delayed or if one funding source falls through. Key funding for Summer Meadows comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture loans and a local tax increment financing district. USDA’s Rural Development division awarded Habitat a $1.6 million site loan to finance the development of the lots. The USDA is also providing qualified homebuyers with subsidized loans. “It allows us to keep our monthly mortgage at an affordable rate so we can avidly enjoy our lives in a safe, stable and affordable home,” Johnson said. The Alexandria City Council designated the neighborhood as a tax increment financing district, which will direct the residents' property taxes back to Habitat for Humanity. Habitat for Humanity paid for the neighborhood’s streets, sewer, water, sidewalks and infrastructure; the organization will recoup its costs via homeowners’ property taxes. Smith is a lead author of the bipartisan Rural Housing Service Reform Act, which was included in a housing package that unanimously passed the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on July 29. Smith’s bill would make several technical changes to the USDA programs that support housing development to streamline and speed up the process. “Even though it's hard to spot the bipartisanship in Washington right now, I do really believe that there is a bipartisan interest and concern and desire to take action around how to address this housing supply and housing affordability crisis,” Smith said. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Madison McVan Madison McVan is a reporter covering the impact of the Trump administration on Minnesotans, including issues like immigration, agriculture, Medicaid, food, housing and other safety net cuts. She's also covering the 2026 Minnesota U.S. Senate race. Prior to joining the Reformer, she wrote about labor and environmental issues in the agriculture industry for Investigate Midwest. She moved to the Twin Cities in 2020 after graduating from the University of Missouri with degrees in journalism and Latin American studies. She's bilingual in English and Spanish. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Commentary Minneapolis needs a stronger rental housing vacancy fee by Forrester Pack and Lucid Thomas September 23, 2026 Klobuchar says she’ll put Minnesota on track to build 100,000 new homes if elected by Alyssa Chen June 8, 2026 Minnesota’s housing growth slowed down in 2025 by Alyssa Chen May 19, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.