Cirrus and STARBASE pack STEM kits for kids across Minnesota - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Cirrus and STARBASE pack STEM kits for kids across Minnesota By WDIO --> Cirrus and STARBASE pack STEM kits for kids across Minnesota Cirrus and STARBASE Minnesota in Duluth are packing hundreds of STEM kits for kids across the state to jumpstart their learning in science. A new partnership in Duluth is providing hands-on science and technology kits to elementary students across Minnesota. About 200 Cirrus employees joined STARBASE to pack these take-home kits for schools. The lessons feature chemistry, robotics and coding activities aimed at sparking interest in STEM. Aaron Rouna is the senior manager of learning development with Cirrus. He says these kits are a great launch point for 5th graders developing critical thinking skills. "Science, technology, engineering, math, you never know what skill set is gonna be excited for your students. You don't know what skills and what activities are gonna really ignite their passion," Rouna said. "So getting exposure to any of these projects, these Starbase educations or STEM in your schools, or even these take home kits is a really good way to just bring that innovation creativity to life." This was the first time Cirrus and STARBASE Minnesota worked together packing these STEM kits for 5th graders. Charity Johnson, the director of the non-profit, says the impact of these lessons also goes far beyond the classroom. "We know most students nowadays learn by doing themselves," Johnson said. "Getting them hands-on with innovative and cutting edge technology that they would never get to experience back at home or back at school. Coupling that with engaging with STEM professionals like those from here at Cirrus to really understand how you're blending the math and science concepts. Ultimately those will help them later in life." Related Story; Leaders shared insight into building a STEM workforce at STARBASE event in Duluth Johnson also said that more than 100,000 salt packets were packed for a water density experiment. The STEM kits are provided free to schools that register on the Starbase Minnesota website. The overall hope is making science accessible to more students. Parents can also help their kids can expand their critical thinking skills and perform experiments at home. There are a handful of demo "missions" available online. For Related Stories: Duluth Education STARBASE Minnesota Duluth STEM William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed