Ahead of climate conference, U.S. House panel tussles over curbs on emissions &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 16:14 News Story DC Bureau Ahead of climate conference, U.S. House panel tussles over curbs on emissions By Jacob Fischler - November 29, 2023 4:14 pm Members of a U.S. House panel on Wednesday, Nov. 29, 2023 battled over what the United States should be doing to curb emissions. Shown is an electric car charging station. (Getty Images) Republicans on a U.S. House panel argued Wednesday against aggressive moves to meet carbon reduction goals, saying U.S. fossil fuel companies are working to make their products cleaner. Democrats on the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment, Manufacturing and Critical Minerals countered that to achieve further reductions, federal policies should be continued to encourage the development of renewable energy and consumer products such as electric vehicles. Coming the day before the 28th annual United Nations climate conference was set to begin, members of the panel battled over the U.S. role in curbing emissions. The conference is often a venue for world leaders to discuss global solutions to climate change. President Joe Biden is not scheduled to attend this year’s conference. Republicans argued that the United States was not as problematic for emissions as countries like China and should be allowed to continue developing cleaner uses of oil and gas, downplaying the need to transition away from those fuels. U.S. fossil fuel companies have produced more energy in recent years while cutting emissions, several Republicans on the panel said. Subcommittee Chairman Bill Johnson, an Ohio Republican, criticized Biden and congressional Democrats for demanding “a radical reordering of American society and a reduced standard of living” to meet climate goals. “Becoming more prosperous and secure as a nation is possible while also decreasing emissions,” Johnson said. “We’ve proven it. We’ve done it. We don’t have to throw the baby out with the bathwater.” But Democrats said that progress on environmental goals, including air pollution, was achieved because of federal policies. Subcommittee ranking Democrat Paul Tonko of New York said U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations and other federal policies drove major reductions in automotive emissions, and particulate matter, ozone and sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere. “Innovation is often not possible without a mix of carrots and sticks,” he said. “There are countless examples of EPA rules playing a driving factor in emissions reductions.” Standards and goals Karl Hausker, a senior fellow with the World Resources Institute, an international environmental nonprofit, said the government’s role in developing a regulatory framework for industry was helpful in pushing the private sector to meet high standards. “When we collectively decide to attack an environmental problem and reduce it, we set standards, we set performance goals and then the incredible scientific and engineering talent of the United States comes into play,” Hausker said. Frank Pallone, a New Jersey Democrat who is the ranking member of the full committee, said Republicans promoted a “polluters-over-people agenda,” and sought to undermine climate programs in recent infrastructure and climate laws and by opposing regulations. Democrats also rejected the idea that fossil-fuel primacy was responsible for a growing economy. Federal spending and tax breaks to encourage renewable energy production, as envisioned in Democrats’ climate and policy law last year, would have several positive impacts on the economy, Pallone said. “These policies are already creating new jobs, cutting costs for working families and advancing homegrown clean energy — all while tackling the climate crisis,” he said. Ceding to China Members of each party disagreed about how best to counter Chinese influence on energy production. Republicans argued that transitioning to renewable energy sources such as wind and solar would benefit China, which produces many of the parts needed for renewable energy products. “This forced transition will leave our economy dangerously dependent upon supply chains from China and make energy less affordable, less reliable for Americans,” committee Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a Washington Republican, said. China has poor environmental and labor standards and “does not share our concerns about climate change risks, nor our value of environmental stewardship,” Rodgers said. “Moving to 100%, wind, solar and battery-powered energy, as some have proposed will cede our energy future to China, and could have perverse effects on increasing emissions,” she added. “We should instead be working to build on our remarkable legacy.” China emits more greenhouse gases than the rest of the developed world, and its emissions increased this year, Mariannette Miller-Meeks, an Iowa Republican, said. She criticized Biden administration policies that she said would promote Chinese industry. “It’s problematic that the Biden administration is continually turning to the Chinese Communist Party to produce energy components,” she said. Democrats countered that the world would be well served by a U.S. leadership role on climate. “We need to demonstrate our nation’s commitment to standing with our allies in the fight against climate change,” Pallone said. “We’re out of time for denialism and obstruction. The science on climate change is indisputable.” The agreement the U.S. and China reached this year on reduction targets for greenhouse gases was the first time China committed to reducing its emissions, Pallone added. Rep. Debbie Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, said the U.S. was in danger of falling behind developing economies, such as China’s, if it cedes leadership in industries like electric vehicle and clean energy manufacturing. “If we sit back and do nothing, what is the danger of letting countries like China lead?” asked Dingell, adding she would “never let them.” X Republish Post Ahead of climate conference, U.S. House panel tussles over curbs on emissions by Jacob Fischler, Minnesota Reformer November 29, 2023 Ahead of climate conference, U.S. House panel tussles over curbs on emissions by Jacob Fischler, Minnesota Reformer November 29, 2023 Republicans on a U.S. House panel argued Wednesday against aggressive moves to meet carbon reduction goals, saying U.S. fossil fuel companies are working to make their products cleaner. Democrats on the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment, Manufacturing and Critical Minerals countered that to achieve further reductions, federal policies should be continued to encourage the development of renewable energy and consumer products such as electric vehicles. Coming the day before the 28th annual United Nations climate conference was set to begin, members of the panel battled over the U.S. role in curbing emissions. The conference is often a venue for world leaders to discuss global solutions to climate change. President Joe Biden is not scheduled to attend this year’s conference. Republicans argued that the United States was not as problematic for emissions as countries like China and should be allowed to continue developing cleaner uses of oil and gas, downplaying the need to transition away from those fuels. U.S. fossil fuel companies have produced more energy in recent years while cutting emissions, several Republicans on the panel said. Subcommittee Chairman Bill Johnson, an Ohio Republican, criticized Biden and congressional Democrats for demanding “a radical reordering of American society and a reduced standard of living” to meet climate goals. “Becoming more prosperous and secure as a nation is possible while also decreasing emissions,” Johnson said. “We’ve proven it. We’ve done it. We don’t have to throw the baby out with the bathwater.” But Democrats said that progress on environmental goals, including air pollution, was achieved because of federal policies. Subcommittee ranking Democrat Paul Tonko of New York said U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations and other federal policies drove major reductions in automotive emissions, and particulate matter, ozone and sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere. “Innovation is often not possible without a mix of carrots and sticks,” he said. “There are countless examples of EPA rules playing a driving factor in emissions reductions.” Standards and goals Karl Hausker, a senior fellow with the World Resources Institute, an international environmental nonprofit, said the government’s role in developing a regulatory framework for industry was helpful in pushing the private sector to meet high standards. “When we collectively decide to attack an environmental problem and reduce it, we set standards, we set performance goals and then the incredible scientific and engineering talent of the United States comes into play,” Hausker said. Frank Pallone, a New Jersey Democrat who is the ranking member of the full committee, said Republicans promoted a “polluters-over-people agenda,” and sought to undermine climate programs in recent infrastructure and climate laws and by opposing regulations. Democrats also rejected the idea that fossil-fuel primacy was responsible for a growing economy. Federal spending and tax breaks to encourage renewable energy production, as envisioned in Democrats’ climate and policy law last year, would have several positive impacts on the economy, Pallone said. “These policies are already creating new jobs, cutting costs for working families and advancing homegrown clean energy — all while tackling the climate crisis,” he said. Ceding to China Members of each party disagreed about how best to counter Chinese influence on energy production. Republicans argued that transitioning to renewable energy sources such as wind and solar would benefit China, which produces many of the parts needed for renewable energy products. “This forced transition will leave our economy dangerously dependent upon supply chains from China and make energy less affordable, less reliable for Americans,” committee Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a Washington Republican, said. China has poor environmental and labor standards and “does not share our concerns about climate change risks, nor our value of environmental stewardship,” Rodgers said. “Moving to 100%, wind, solar and battery-powered energy, as some have proposed will cede our energy future to China, and could have perverse effects on increasing emissions,” she added. “We should instead be working to build on our remarkable legacy.” China emits more greenhouse gases than the rest of the developed world, and its emissions increased this year, Mariannette Miller-Meeks, an Iowa Republican, said. She criticized Biden administration policies that she said would promote Chinese industry. “It’s problematic that the Biden administration is continually turning to the Chinese Communist Party to produce energy components,” she said. Democrats countered that the world would be well served by a U.S. leadership role on climate. “We need to demonstrate our nation’s commitment to standing with our allies in the fight against climate change,” Pallone said. “We’re out of time for denialism and obstruction. The science on climate change is indisputable.” The agreement the U.S. and China reached this year on reduction targets for greenhouse gases was the first time China committed to reducing its emissions, Pallone added. Rep. Debbie Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, said the U.S. was in danger of falling behind developing economies, such as China’s, if it cedes leadership in industries like electric vehicle and clean energy manufacturing. “If we sit back and do nothing, what is the danger of letting countries like China lead?” asked Dingell, adding she would “never let them.” Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jacob Fischler Jacob covers federal policy and helps direct national coverage as deputy Washington bureau chief for States Newsroom. Based in Oregon, he focuses on Western issues. His coverage areas include climate, energy development, public lands and infrastructure. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Tim Walz and J.D. Vance tangle in wonky, largely cordial vice presidential debate by Ashley Murray and Jennifer Shutt October 2, 2024 Energy and climate: Where do Harris and Trump stand? by Jacob Fischler October 1, 2024 U.S. Senate panel probes federal government’s role in affordable housing crisis by Ariana Figueroa September 25, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.