Your weekend guide: Ethiopian music, women’s history, the Guthrie Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ARTS & CULTURE Ring in 2025 with Ethiopian music, Puerto Rican blessings, women’s history and a play about immigrants This weekend’s events include a Puerto Rican-inspired exhibit at CLUES, an Ethiopian concert at Berlin, a women’s history display at the Minnesota History Center and a play at the Guthrie about two immigrant women. by Myah Goff January 2, 2025 January 3, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Juyeon Song and Jenna Agbayani in a scene from "The Heart Sellers" at the Guthrie Theater. Credit: Dan Norman When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Kick off the first weekend of 2025 at CLUES gallery in St. Paul, where visitors can reflect on 2024 and offer blessings for the new year at a Puerto Rican-inspired altar. At the Minnesota History Center, explore an exhibit highlighting women’s roles in social movements, featuring artifacts spanning the education, civil rights and suffrage movements. Experience traditional and contemporary Ethiopian music at Berlin in Minneapolis, and see the Guthrie Theater’s play about two Asian immigrant women navigating Thanksgiving in 1970s America. Bendiciónes” (Blessings), is an altar inspired by a Puerto Rican tradition of seeking blessings from elders. Credit: Candida Gonzalez Puerto Rican-inspried exhibit invites reflection and blessings for 2025 “2024, in many ways, especially with the election, has been a hard year for people,” said Puerto Rican artist Candida Gonzalez . “How do we move into 2025 with hope?” Gonazlez invites visitors to explore this question through two interactive installations in her latest exhibit, “Salud, Paz & Comunidad” (Health, Peace & Community) at CLUES gallery in St. Paul. The first, “Nuestros Bonitos Recuerdos” (Our Beautiful Memories), offers a nostalgic look at the year through photo collages and prints featuring CLUES staff and collaborators. The images are displayed on embroidery hoops and repurposed chains, hanging like ornaments on the wall. The second installation, “Bendiciónes” (Blessings), is an altar inspired by a Puerto Rican tradition of seeking blessings from elders. Gonzalez describes it as a space to honor one’s emotions and higher beings or deities without religious constraints. The altar, adorned with photographs of Puerto Rico and candles representing love, money, peace, health and justice, invites visitors to write and offer their own blessings for the new year. “What were the beautiful moments of 2024?” Gonzalez asks. “What were the hard moments? What is the one moment that you really want to add to this collective celebration as we say goodbye to 2024 and move into 2025?” Date: Now through February 14, 2025. Public reception on January 30 from 5 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Time: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Location: 797 E. 7th St., St. Paul Cost: Free For more information: Visit clues.org/latino-art-events . The Minnesota Historical Society's exhibit "Girlhood (It's Complicated) is on display through June 1, 2025 Credit: Minnesota Historical Society and Lauren B. Photography Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up Artifacts and stories highlight women’s history The Minnesota History Center’s exhibit, “Girlhood (It’s complicated),” offers a timely exploration of the role women have played in shaping and disrupting systems of education, work, wellness, fashion and politics. The exhibit features more than 100 artifacts — toys, protest signs, menstrual products, advertisements, personal diaries — highlighting women’s roles in social movements such as suffrage, civil rights and environmentalism. Minnesota is the fourth and last stop to host the traveling exhibit from the Smithsonian , and adds a unique focus on girls' basketball in the state. This section celebrates Minnesota’s first female basketball player, Linda Roberts, alongside other players who designed a uniform that helped stop their hijabs from slipping off. Date: Now through June 1. Time: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Wednesday through Saturday; 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Thursdays. Location: 345 W. Kellogg Blvd., St. Paul Cost: Free For more information: Visit mnhs.org/historycenter Abinnet Bernahu's band Ahndenet and vocalist Genet Abate performing at Little Africa Festival in Saint Paul on August 4, 2024. Credit: Beza Tuga A night of Ethiopian music Berlin , a European-inspired jazz club, will host a night of traditional and contemporary Ethiopian music . Drummer and composer Abinnet Berhanu leads the band, Ahndenet, and will be joined by vocalist Genet Abate in performing Ethiopian folk and popular songs, drawing inspiration from East and West African diasporas. Date: Saturday, January 4. Time: 7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Location: Berlin, 204 N. 1st St., Minneapolis Cost: $21 For more information: Visit berlinmpls.com . Juyeon Song and Jenna Agbayani in a scene from "The Heart Sellers" at the Guthrie Theater. Credit: Dan Norman Two women redefine Thanksgiving far from home Playwright Lloyd Suh’s one-act play, “The Heart Sellers,” is being performed at the Guthrie Theater , offering a glimpse into a Thanksgiving dinner shared by two Asian immigrant women in 1973. Luna ( Jenna Agbayani ), from the Philippines, and Jane (Juyeon Song), from Korea, navigate their first American holiday together, just eight years after President Lyndon Johnson signed The Hart-Celler Act , or the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965. The act abolished discriminatory quotas, like the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882. The quotas limited how many people could enter the United States from Asia, Africa and southern and eastern Europe. Luna and Jane bond over a bottle of wine and prepare a turkey dinner as their husbands work the night shift in a medical residency program. Through the women’s shared stories and their challenges adjusting to a new country, the play captures the isolated resilience of immigrant women redefining their sense of home. “Each by each these people, they dig into their chest, and they take out their heart, and they pass it over,” Luna says in the play. “This heart seller — it’s not somebody who’s going to give you a heart, but we’re the heart sellers. It’s us. It’s our hearts, and we sell them away.” The Guthrie Theater will host a BIPOC Community Night at 5:30 p.m. on Friday, January 10, providing a networking space for Black, Indigenous and people of color. Additionally, an Asian Artists Pop-Up Market will take place on Saturday, January 18 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Date: Now through January 25. Time: 1 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Location: Guthrie Theater, 818 S. 2nd St., Minneapolis Cost: Tickets start at $33 For more information: Visit guthrietheater.org . READ MORE St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Sponsored Content The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Ethiopia , Guthrie Theater , holidays , Puerto Rico , Weekend arts guide Myah Goff myahgoffreports@gmail.com Myah Goff is a freelance journalist and photographer, exploring the intersection of art and culture. With a journalism degree from the University of Minnesota and a previous internship at Sahan Journal,... More by Myah Goff Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Discover, know, go! Minnesota resources, events, and ways to get involved delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for Sahan Pathfinder , our community-first newsletter. Sign up! This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close