The newbies: Get to know a few newly elected Minnesota lawmakers &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 7:00 News Story Government & Politics The newbies: Get to know a few newly elected Minnesota lawmakers By Michelle Griffith - November 21, 2024 7:00 am Minnesota Capitol. Photo by Minnesota House Public Information Services. Voters on Nov. 5 elected 22 new members of the Minnesota House, including 14 freshmen Republicans and eight new Democratic-Farmer-Labor members. The Minnesota House is split evenly between Democrats and Republicans 67-67, meaning that each new member can wield considerable influence not typically seen among freshman legislators. New members typically follow the lead of their caucus, as they are still learning how the Capitol operates. Given the 67-67 tie, however, new members can withhold their vote and gum up the entire caucus agenda. The Reformer reached out to all 22 new members. Some haven’t responded yet. ( Email us !) The following five new members spoke with the Reformer about why they ran for office and what they hope to accomplish at the Legislature. This is the second installment in the Reformer’s series introducing readers to the 22 new Minnesota House members and one state senator. Read our first installment here. Rep. Cal Warwas, R-Eveleth Cal Warwas. Courtesy photo. Cal Warwas, a steel worker who grew up on the Iron Range, successfully flipped House District 7B from blue to red earlier this month. The seat was the last remaining Iron Range seat held by the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. The district and its surrounding areas have been represented by Democrats for the last 96 years. Warwas, 48, said Democrats have strayed from a pro-mining message, which is not popular on the Iron Range. “Democrats in St. Paul have been able to basically control the entire party and traditional Democrats on the Iron Range didn’t have a voice anymore as it pertains to things like expanding mining, sustaining mining,” Warwas said. Warwas, who has been a miner for 28 years, said his top issue will be to expand the mining of critical materials in northeastern Minnesota, including copper and nickel. Warwas said the state government needs to focus on green-lighting mining projects faster by reforming the permitting process. Other top issues for Warwas include bolstering public safety and the police, and protecting Second Amendment rights, he said. Warwas is a cancer survivor, and he lost his right kidney to cancer in 2020. Katie Jones, DFL-Minneapolis Katie Jones. Courtesy photo. Katie Jones, 37, is an energy efficiency policy consultant and won a tough primary battle for the House seat in August. Jones will be replacing influential DFL Rep. Frank Hornstein. Jones grew up in Indiana. She said she ran for office because she wants her adopted home state to thrive, and she has the skills to do just that. Jones, who will represent House District 61A in southwest Minneapolis, said people are concerned about the vitality of downtown Minneapolis. She plans to introduce a bill that would create a grant program specifically for small businesses whose foot traffic has been impacted by nearby road construction. Jones said she plans to work with her Republican colleagues to find shared values and get things done, but she won’t compromise on the rights of Minnesotans. “I will always stand firm on progressive values of protecting those who have been historically marginalized and who are still experiencing marginalization today, so that's a non-starter,” Jones said. Jones and her husband live in a strawbale house in Uptown Minneapolis, meaning they used straw as a primary construction material for energy efficiency and to reduce carbon emissions. Rep. Wayne Johnson, R-Cottage Grove Wayne Johnson. Courtesy photo. Wayne Johnson is a small business owner and a former member of the Washington County Board of Commissioners. Though he will be new to the Legislature, Johnson said he knows the Capitol well thanks to his many trips to St. Paul to testify on various bills as a commissioner. Johnson, 59, said he ran for the House because he saw how new taxes and regulations were hurting businesses. He felt he was uniquely qualified to address these issues. He said the Democratic majority in the past few years passed interesting programs and proposals, like paid leave and a ban on “junk fees,” but they were approved with little thought to the cost and how to implement them. “There needs to be some more thinking through the process, instead of coming up with ideas and then saying, ‘Well, let’s just do this because it sounds cool,’” Johnson said. Johnson, who will represent House District 41A, said his top issues will be lowering taxes, fighting inflation and bolstering vocational and technical education. He said his son is an electrician who didn’t have enough opportunities to take trade classes in high school, so he would like to create more opportunities for young people to learn a trade in high school. House District 41A was an open seat. Johnson won his seat by 327 votes even though Democratic nominee Vice President Kamala Harris won the district by about 1,300 votes. Julie Greene, DFL-Edina Julie Greene. Courtesy photo. Julie Greene is a brand strategist and a former Edina School Board member. She ran for school board in 2020 because she said teachers and students were being unfairly maligned by misinformation. Greene, 52, said she wanted to step up and make sure that the community was represented well, and now she wants the same thing at the Legislature. Greene, who will represent House District 50A, said her top issues include education, lowering costs for families, climate and energy and gun control. She said she will approach her work with an open mind to get things done in the 67-67 House. “I’m open to working with Republicans to do that good work and support all Minnesotans. I think that is how I served as an Edina School Board member as well,” Greene said. Greene grew up in a Chicago suburb, and she has four kids, ages 15 to 23. She said her family has fully embraced the winters, and they love to snowmobile and ski. Rep. Kari Rehrauer, DFL-Coon Rapids Kari Rehrauer. Courtesy photo. Kari Rehrauer is an Education Minnesota union representative, a former teacher and a member of the Coon Rapids City Council. Rehrauer, 48, said she ran for the House because she wants to advocate for more education funding to ensure that all school districts are well-funded. Her top issues include protecting the environment, strengthening unions and making life more affordable for Minnesotans. “I taught life science and earth science, so the environment and protecting our environment has always been very important to me, so I'd like to work on continuing to mitigate climate change and extreme weather,” Rehrauer said. Rehrauer, who will represent House District 35B, said she would like to see the bills that were stonewalled in the last few years to be reconsidered again, like the Equal Rights Amendment and the “Prove it First” bill, which states that before a copper-nickel mine is permitted in Minnesota, companies must show proof that sulfide mining has been done elsewhere in the U.S. without causing pollution. Rehrauer once ran an at-home child care business when her children were young. X Republish Post The newbies: Get to know a few newly elected Minnesota lawmakers by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer November 21, 2024 The newbies: Get to know a few newly elected Minnesota lawmakers by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer November 21, 2024 Voters on Nov. 5 elected 22 new members of the Minnesota House, including 14 freshmen Republicans and eight new Democratic-Farmer-Labor members. The Minnesota House is split evenly between Democrats and Republicans 67-67, meaning that each new member can wield considerable influence not typically seen among freshman legislators. New members typically follow the lead of their caucus, as they are still learning how the Capitol operates. Given the 67-67 tie, however, new members can withhold their vote and gum up the entire caucus agenda. The Reformer reached out to all 22 new members. Some haven’t responded yet. ( Email us !) The following five new members spoke with the Reformer about why they ran for office and what they hope to accomplish at the Legislature. This is the second installment in the Reformer’s series introducing readers to the 22 new Minnesota House members and one state senator. Read our first installment here. Rep. Cal Warwas, R-Eveleth Cal Warwas, a steel worker who grew up on the Iron Range, successfully flipped House District 7B from blue to red earlier this month. The seat was the last remaining Iron Range seat held by the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. The district and its surrounding areas have been represented by Democrats for the last 96 years. Warwas, 48, said Democrats have strayed from a pro-mining message, which is not popular on the Iron Range. “Democrats in St. Paul have been able to basically control the entire party and traditional Democrats on the Iron Range didn’t have a voice anymore as it pertains to things like expanding mining, sustaining mining,” Warwas said. Warwas, who has been a miner for 28 years, said his top issue will be to expand the mining of critical materials in northeastern Minnesota, including copper and nickel. Warwas said the state government needs to focus on green-lighting mining projects faster by reforming the permitting process. Other top issues for Warwas include bolstering public safety and the police, and protecting Second Amendment rights, he said. Warwas is a cancer survivor, and he lost his right kidney to cancer in 2020. Katie Jones, DFL-Minneapolis Katie Jones, 37, is an energy efficiency policy consultant and won a tough primary battle for the House seat in August. Jones will be replacing influential DFL Rep. Frank Hornstein. Jones grew up in Indiana. She said she ran for office because she wants her adopted home state to thrive, and she has the skills to do just that. Jones, who will represent House District 61A in southwest Minneapolis, said people are concerned about the vitality of downtown Minneapolis. She plans to introduce a bill that would create a grant program specifically for small businesses whose foot traffic has been impacted by nearby road construction. Jones said she plans to work with her Republican colleagues to find shared values and get things done, but she won’t compromise on the rights of Minnesotans. “I will always stand firm on progressive values of protecting those who have been historically marginalized and who are still experiencing marginalization today, so that's a non-starter,” Jones said. Jones and her husband live in a strawbale house in Uptown Minneapolis, meaning they used straw as a primary construction material for energy efficiency and to reduce carbon emissions. Rep. Wayne Johnson, R-Cottage Grove Wayne Johnson is a small business owner and a former member of the Washington County Board of Commissioners. Though he will be new to the Legislature, Johnson said he knows the Capitol well thanks to his many trips to St. Paul to testify on various bills as a commissioner. Johnson, 59, said he ran for the House because he saw how new taxes and regulations were hurting businesses. He felt he was uniquely qualified to address these issues. He said the Democratic majority in the past few years passed interesting programs and proposals, like paid leave and a ban on “junk fees,” but they were approved with little thought to the cost and how to implement them. “There needs to be some more thinking through the process, instead of coming up with ideas and then saying, ‘Well, let’s just do this because it sounds cool,’” Johnson said. Johnson, who will represent House District 41A, said his top issues will be lowering taxes, fighting inflation and bolstering vocational and technical education. He said his son is an electrician who didn’t have enough opportunities to take trade classes in high school, so he would like to create more opportunities for young people to learn a trade in high school. House District 41A was an open seat. Johnson won his seat by 327 votes even though Democratic nominee Vice President Kamala Harris won the district by about 1,300 votes. Julie Greene, DFL-Edina Julie Greene is a brand strategist and a former Edina School Board member. She ran for school board in 2020 because she said teachers and students were being unfairly maligned by misinformation. Greene, 52, said she wanted to step up and make sure that the community was represented well, and now she wants the same thing at the Legislature. Greene, who will represent House District 50A, said her top issues include education, lowering costs for families, climate and energy and gun control. She said she will approach her work with an open mind to get things done in the 67-67 House. “I’m open to working with Republicans to do that good work and support all Minnesotans. I think that is how I served as an Edina School Board member as well,” Greene said. Greene grew up in a Chicago suburb, and she has four kids, ages 15 to 23. She said her family has fully embraced the winters, and they love to snowmobile and ski. Rep. Kari Rehrauer, DFL-Coon Rapids Kari Rehrauer is an Education Minnesota union representative, a former teacher and a member of the Coon Rapids City Council. Rehrauer, 48, said she ran for the House because she wants to advocate for more education funding to ensure that all school districts are well-funded. Her top issues include protecting the environment, strengthening unions and making life more affordable for Minnesotans. “I taught life science and earth science, so the environment and protecting our environment has always been very important to me, so I'd like to work on continuing to mitigate climate change and extreme weather,” Rehrauer said. Rehrauer, who will represent House District 35B, said she would like to see the bills that were stonewalled in the last few years to be reconsidered again, like the Equal Rights Amendment and the “Prove it First” bill, which states that before a copper-nickel mine is permitted in Minnesota, companies must show proof that sulfide mining has been done elsewhere in the U.S. without causing pollution. Rehrauer once ran an at-home child care business when her children were young. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Lawmakers promised civility after Melissa Hortman’s killing. A year later, there’s work to do. by Michelle Griffith June 12, 2026 Minnesota Legislature closes out session marked by partisan division and election year politics by Michelle Griffith May 17, 2026 With three weeks left, long to-do list for Minnesota lawmakers becomes more elusive by Michelle Griffith April 28, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.