‘Alebrijes’ brings Mexican folk art to St. Paul’s Raspberry Island Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ARTS & CULTURE ‘Alebrijes: Keepers of the Island’ brings Mexican folk art to St. Paul’s Raspberry Island As the Minnesota Latino Museum works toward a permanent home, its latest St. Paul exhibit features towering mythical papier-mâché creatures created by artists from Mexico City. by Myah Goff June 3, 2025 June 3, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook “Patapez” ("Fish with feet") by Mexico City artist Alejandro Camacho Barrera is part of the “Alebrijes: Keepers of the Island" exhibit on Raspberry Island in St. Paul. It runs through Oct. 26, 2025. Credit: Myah Goff for Sahan Journal When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Sixteen large-scale alebrije sculptures have taken up residence on St. Paul’s Raspberry Island, transforming the riverfront into a zoo of multicolored, mythical creatures. Adorned with horns, wings, scales, jagged teeth and bulging eyes, the papiermâché animals are part of a new outdoor art show from the Minnesota Latino Museum . The show “ Alebrijes: Keepers of the Island ,” features works by four Mexico City-based papier-mâché artists. It’s an ambitious project for the young museum, which is still trying to raise money for a permanent space. The show faced a last-minute roadblock when the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) abruptly terminated a $30,000 grant on May 2, just weeks before it was installed. The grant was one of just two “Our Town” grants awarded in Minnesota in fiscal year 2024. The NEA cited a shift in agency priorities to “focus funding on projects that reflect the nation’s rich artistic heritage and creativity as prioritized by the President.” That struck Aaron Johnson-Ortiz, the museum’s executive director, as short-sighted. “To say that we’re not part of the rich artistic heritage of the United States is an absurd statement to make,” he said. “There’s 43 million Mexicans in the United States. We are part of this country and we’re not going to be pushed out.” The museum appealed the termination and submitted for reimbursement of expenses already incurred, arguing that the project fulfilled the original terms of the grant. On May 29, the NEA reversed course and reimbursed the full $30,000 award. “From the beginning, we were not going to slow down because of political shenanigans,” Johnson-Ortiz wrote to Sahan Journal in an email. “Instead, we moved forward and we won.” State Rep. Maria Isa Perez-Vega, DFL-St. Paul, and Latino Museum of Minnesota Executive Director Aaron Johnson-Ortiz at the opening ceremony for "Alebrijes" on Raspberry Island in St. Paul on May 31, 2025. Credit: Myah Goff for Sahan Journal A rich history The tradition of alebrijes dates back to the 1930s, when Mexico City artist Pedro Linares had a fever dream of a fantastical forest filled with bizarre, colorful creatures chanting the word “alebrije.” When he recovered from his illness, Linares began creating the creatures from papier-mâché and cardboard, giving form to what he imagined. Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up “Since then, generations of mainly Mexico City-based papier-mâché artists have been creating even larger and wilder creations of alebrijes,” said Aaron Johnson-Ortiz, the executive director of the Minnesota Latino Museum. “It’s very much grounded in Mexican culture but it's also open-ended and up to the interpretation of the artists.” Artist Alberto Moreno Fernández’s alebrije “Bicéfalo,” is a two-headed dragon exploring the tension between good and evil. Inspired by the concept of yin and yang, it represents the choices we make, both right and wrong, that ultimately shape who we are. “Just like the alebrijes, for me to be in this amazing country and to be in this amazing location and island is a dream come true,” Fernández said at the exhibit’s ribbon-cutting ceremony on Saturday. “This exhibit is a small piece of our country and we bring it with love and with passion for the work.” At the center of the island stands “Mykel,” an alebrije created by artist Edgar Israel Camargo Reyes . The fantastical creature, a toad with a lizard-like tail and butterfly wings, was created in memory of his father-in-law, who passed away during the COVID-19 pandemic. “We’ve been here installing all week and there’s been people from all backgrounds coming to talk with us, from all races, ages, nationalities, and all of them have approached me with respect and cordiality,” Reyes said. “That’s why I feel at home. That’s why I want to thank you all for letting us have our alebrijes come and invade this island for a period of time.” On the island, visitors can encounter sculptures ranging from 4 to 16 feet tall, including a winged bear, a geometric-patterned woodpecker clinging to a tree, a four-legged fish, a sugar skull monkey and more. Painted in vibrant colors and etched with phrases like “¡Viva México!,” the creatures reflect not only Linares’ surrealist influence but also the Indigenous concept of the nahual — an animal spirit believed to represent a person’s inner self. “This outdoor public art exhibit is kind of like a museum without walls,” Johnson-Ortiz said. “It teaches art, it teaches history, it engages communities — and it’s very much in line with the spirit of what we hope the Minnesota Latino Museum building will be.” Visitors look at "Mykel" (Toad with Wings) at the “Alebrijes: Keepers of the Island" exhibit on Raspberry Island in St. Paul. It runs through Oct. 26, 2025. A museum in the making Efforts to create Minnesota’s first Latino museum started in 2015 but gained momentum in 2022 when Johnson-Ortiz and his Latino arts collective, “(Neo) Muralismos de México,” met with state representative María Isa Pérez-Vega. One of her campaign goals was to create a museum celebrating Latino culture on St. Paul’s West Side. “We met with her while she was still campaigning,” Johnson-Ortiz said. “We’ve been waiting a long time for political leadership to advocate for cultural spaces for our community.” The collective began working with artists community members to develop plans for a permanent Latino museum located in the West Side Flats area of Harriet Island Regional Park in St. Paul, where Mexicans first settled in the early 20th century . Although the museum is still fundraising for a physical space, its mission is to represent the entire state — home to more than 370,000 Minnesotans of Latino heritage — while remaining grounded in the stories and struggles of the West Side. “There’s a Spanish expression that says ‘Aquí estamos, no nos vamos.’ We’re here and we’re not leaving,” Johnson-Ortiz said. “We have to insist that our culture and our arts are worth funding and worth supporting.” The alebrijes will remain on view through Oct. 26 during regular park hours from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. On Saturday, June 14, the museum will host a community celebration from noon to 5 p.m., in partnership with the West Side Community Organization. The event will feature live music, food trucks, and art activities. “Our Latino community has been such an anchor of our whole city, certainly our West Side,” St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter told Sahan Journal at the opening. Art “is primarily intended to convey some history. It’s primarily intended to keep alive some legacy and culture. So I hope that people who come here look at the figures with their spirit, not just their eyes.” READ MORE Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Looking forward, looking back: Mizna’s Arab Film Fest digs into cultural archives New indie film ‘QUEEN(S)’ brings undocumented immigrant story to Minnesota for its world premiere Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: art , Mexico , Minnesota Latino Museum , raspberry island , sculpture , St. Paul , West Side Community Organization , West Side Flats Myah Goff myahgoffreports@gmail.com Myah Goff is a freelance journalist and photographer, exploring the intersection of art and culture. With a journalism degree from the University of Minnesota and a previous internship at Sahan Journal,... More by Myah Goff Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Discover, know, go! Minnesota resources, events, and ways to get involved delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for Sahan Pathfinder , our community-first newsletter. Sign up! This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close