125 court interpreters say they won’t work until they get higher pay — and other labor news &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 10:16 News Story The Break Room Work & Money 125 court interpreters say they won’t work until they get higher pay — and other labor news By Max Nesterak - January 26, 2024 10:16 am Spanish interpreter Maria Lander Cabrera asks the court administrator to meet with them during a news conference on Jan. 25, 2024. Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer. Welcome to the Break Room, our weekly round-up of labor news in Minnesota and beyond. This week: court interpreters commit to protracted strike; Hennepin County gets worker protection unit; unionization rate falls in Minnesota; criminal charges unclear in dairy wage theft case; Gov. Tim Walz heralds 31% raise for home care workers; Bemidji schools ordered to stop interfering with union organizing; President Biden wins endorsement from United Auto Workers. Court interpreters go public More than 125 contract court interpreters sent a letter to Minnesota State Court Administrator Jeff Shorba on Wednesday in support of an unprecedented work stoppage that has forced the courts to triage cases and postpone hearings. At the beginning of the strike nearly three weeks ago, no interpreter was willing to speak publicly because they have few legal protections as non-union independent contractors. But the interpreters have become more confident as the protest has gone on, holding a press conference Thursday in front of the Minnesota Judicial Center in St. Paul. “(We) revealed ourselves by name, and we are here today to extend an invitation to dialogue,” said Spanish interpreter Maria Lander Cabrera. Despite the effect the strike is having on the courts, the two sides have not even begun negotiations. A spokeswoman for the courts told the Reformer last week that the group called Minnesota Court Interpreters “is neither a union nor a trade organization, so we do not know who its leadership or members are.” That prompted more than half the court’s roster interpreters to sign the letter in support of the protest. The letter includes interpreters in Spanish, Hmong, Somali and more than a dozen other languages, as well as all American Sign Language and certified deaf interpreters on the court’s roster. Meanwhile, the Minnesota Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers sent a letter to Shorba and Minnesota Supreme Court Chief Justice Natalie Hudson calling for a “swift and fair resolution” to the strike, saying their clients have had hearings needlessly delayed or else provided with unqualified interpreters. Interpreters don’t exclusively work for the courts and continue to earn income from other clients, which gives them an advantage in a protracted strike. They believe the courts need them more than they need the courts. The interpreters are demanding to have the same buying power they did in 1997, when they made $50 an hour. That would be over $96 an hour in today’s dollars, but interpreters made $55 an hour until Jan. 8 when new rates increased their pay to $65 an hour. Certified deaf interpreters, whose wages increased to $93 an hour during the pandemic, saw their rates decline to the pre-pandemic rate of $86 per hour. Under the new rates, interpreters also don’t receive premium pay for remote hearings or pay for the time they spend driving more than 35 miles to court. Instead, they are only promised the mileage reimbursement rate set by the federal government. In a letter to interpreters before the strike, Shorba said the courts haven’t been given enough money by the Legislature to pay for raises, but that the Judicial Branch will ask for $1.5 million in additional funding this year. That could increase payment rates to $75 an hour for certified language interpreters. Hennepin County creates new worker protection unit Brian Walsh, former head of Minneapolis' labor standards division, will lead a new worker protection unit in the Hennepin County Attorney's Office. Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer. Hennepin County Attorney Mary Moriarty announced the creation of a new worker protection unit to crack down on employers who violate labor laws. “Too often vulnerable workers are preyed upon by their employers. This is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated,” Moriarty said during a Thursday news conference. The unit will be led by Brian Walsh, who recovered $1.4 million for thousands of workers as head of the city of Minneapolis’ labor standards enforcement. Moriarty said Walsh’s effectiveness at enforcing labor law is nationally recognized. The creation of the unit builds on the efforts of Moriarty’s predecessor, Mike Freeman, who invested in prosecuting abuses like labor trafficking. Moriarty said the unit will provide a more comprehensive approach to inform workers about their rights as well as helping local law enforcement in identifying and investigating abuse. Minnesota has one of the strongest anti-wage theft laws in the country, with employers facing felony charges for intentionally defrauding workers of more than $1,000. Yet since the criminal penalty was passed in 2019, wage theft has only been charged a handful of times, and no one has been convicted of felony wage theft. One of the first felony wage theft cases in the state, brought by Moriarty’s office against painting contractor Frederick Leon Newell , is scheduled to go to trial in March. Why did unionization fall in Minnesota? Unions are enjoying the most robust public support in nearly six decades and winning double digit pay raises for their members, yet the share of the American workforce that is unionized remains stuck at historic lows. In Minnesota, union membership ticked down nearly a full percentage point from 14.2% to 13.3% in 2023, inching closer to the national average of 10%, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The year-to-year dip doesn't reflect a significant loss for unions, according to labor experts. Labor economist Aaron Sojourner said it could be chalked up to imprecise data and strong job gains in the private sector that water down union gains. We have more analysis about this in a story published this morning . Criminal investigation unclear against dairy farm Over the past three years, dairy farmers Keith Schaefer and his daughter Megan Hill stole at least $3 million from hundreds of their workers across central Minnesota, according to a lawsuit filed by Attorney General Keith Ellison earlier this month. Schaefer and Hill, who own Evergreen Acres Dairy and Morgan Feedlots, allegedly shaved 12-32 hours off workers’ paychecks every two weeks, refused to pay workers for their first and last weeks of work and unlawfully deducted rent from their wages for beds in barns, garages and other structures not suitable for human habitation. Stealing anything valued at more than $1,000 is a felony in Minnesota, but Schaefer and Hill were not arrested when they were served notice of the lawsuit at their home in Stearns County. They haven’t been charged with any crimes. The case illustrates both the promise and challenges of Minnesota’s relatively new wage theft law, which seeks to deter a practice that worker advocates say is all too common. Ellison said criminal charges are a “possibility” but it’s unclear if there is a criminal investigation. Walz highlights 31% pay raise for home care workers Gov. Tim Walz visited personal care attendant Felicia Johnson in her south Minneapolis home on Wednesday afternoon to draw attention to the 31% raise she and tens of thousands of other home care workers will receive over the next two years. On Jan. 1, Johnson’s pay as a home care worker increased from $15.25 to $19 an hour and will rise to $20 an hour next year; it’s the largest pay raises workers have received since unionizing in 2014. “Now I don’t have to worry about skipping meals,” Johnson said. The raises were brokered in negotiations between state officials and SEIU Healthcare Minnesota & Iowa, which represents roughly 20,000 home care workers. The contract was ratified by state lawmakers with bipartisan support at the end of the legislative session last year. The contract will likely push up wages for tens of thousands of non-unionized home care workers as well because state lawmakers increased the reimbursement rate for home care services under the state’s Medicaid program as part of the deal. Judge bars Bemidji schools from union interference A Beltrami County judge ordered the Bemidji Area Schools to stop interfering with the union organizing activities of its teachers, Chelsey Perkins and Larissa Donovan reported for KAXE/KBXE. The district tried to stop educators from passing out flyers on school property, according to court documents. The Beltrami County judge sided with the teachers’ union, ruling that the policy requiring outside groups to get permission would cause irreparable harm to union organizing efforts. UAW endorses President Biden President Joe Biden won the critical endorsement of the United Auto Workers union after he became the first sitting U.S. president to visit an active picket line during their strike last fall. UAW President Shawn Fain drew a clear contrast between Biden and Donald Trump during a rousing speech before union workers in Washington, D.C. “It’s not about who you like, it’s not about your party, it’s not about this b—– about age. It’s not about anything but our best shot at taking back power for the working class,” Fain said. “Donald Trump is a scab,” Fain said to loud applause and whistling. “Donald Trump is a billionaire and that’s who he represents. If Donald Trump ever worked in an auto plant, he wouldn’t be a UAW member. He’d be a company man, trying to squeeze the American autoworker.” X Republish Post 125 court interpreters say they won’t work until they get higher pay — and other labor news by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer January 26, 2024 125 court interpreters say they won’t work until they get higher pay — and other labor news by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer January 26, 2024 Welcome to the Break Room, our weekly round-up of labor news in Minnesota and beyond. This week: court interpreters commit to protracted strike; Hennepin County gets worker protection unit; unionization rate falls in Minnesota; criminal charges unclear in dairy wage theft case; Gov. Tim Walz heralds 31% raise for home care workers; Bemidji schools ordered to stop interfering with union organizing; President Biden wins endorsement from United Auto Workers. Court interpreters go public More than 125 contract court interpreters sent a letter to Minnesota State Court Administrator Jeff Shorba on Wednesday in support of an unprecedented work stoppage that has forced the courts to triage cases and postpone hearings. At the beginning of the strike nearly three weeks ago, no interpreter was willing to speak publicly because they have few legal protections as non-union independent contractors. But the interpreters have become more confident as the protest has gone on, holding a press conference Thursday in front of the Minnesota Judicial Center in St. Paul. “(We) revealed ourselves by name, and we are here today to extend an invitation to dialogue,” said Spanish interpreter Maria Lander Cabrera. Despite the effect the strike is having on the courts, the two sides have not even begun negotiations. A spokeswoman for the courts told the Reformer last week that the group called Minnesota Court Interpreters “is neither a union nor a trade organization, so we do not know who its leadership or members are.” That prompted more than half the court’s roster interpreters to sign the letter in support of the protest. The letter includes interpreters in Spanish, Hmong, Somali and more than a dozen other languages, as well as all American Sign Language and certified deaf interpreters on the court’s roster. Meanwhile, the Minnesota Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers sent a letter to Shorba and Minnesota Supreme Court Chief Justice Natalie Hudson calling for a “swift and fair resolution” to the strike, saying their clients have had hearings needlessly delayed or else provided with unqualified interpreters. Interpreters don’t exclusively work for the courts and continue to earn income from other clients, which gives them an advantage in a protracted strike. They believe the courts need them more than they need the courts. The interpreters are demanding to have the same buying power they did in 1997, when they made $50 an hour. That would be over $96 an hour in today’s dollars, but interpreters made $55 an hour until Jan. 8 when new rates increased their pay to $65 an hour. Certified deaf interpreters, whose wages increased to $93 an hour during the pandemic, saw their rates decline to the pre-pandemic rate of $86 per hour. Under the new rates, interpreters also don’t receive premium pay for remote hearings or pay for the time they spend driving more than 35 miles to court. Instead, they are only promised the mileage reimbursement rate set by the federal government. In a letter to interpreters before the strike, Shorba said the courts haven’t been given enough money by the Legislature to pay for raises, but that the Judicial Branch will ask for $1.5 million in additional funding this year. That could increase payment rates to $75 an hour for certified language interpreters. Hennepin County creates new worker protection unit Hennepin County Attorney Mary Moriarty announced the creation of a new worker protection unit to crack down on employers who violate labor laws. “Too often vulnerable workers are preyed upon by their employers. This is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated,” Moriarty said during a Thursday news conference. The unit will be led by Brian Walsh, who recovered $1.4 million for thousands of workers as head of the city of Minneapolis’ labor standards enforcement. Moriarty said Walsh’s effectiveness at enforcing labor law is nationally recognized. The creation of the unit builds on the efforts of Moriarty’s predecessor, Mike Freeman, who invested in prosecuting abuses like labor trafficking. Moriarty said the unit will provide a more comprehensive approach to inform workers about their rights as well as helping local law enforcement in identifying and investigating abuse. Minnesota has one of the strongest anti-wage theft laws in the country, with employers facing felony charges for intentionally defrauding workers of more than $1,000. Yet since the criminal penalty was passed in 2019, wage theft has only been charged a handful of times, and no one has been convicted of felony wage theft. One of the first felony wage theft cases in the state, brought by Moriarty’s office against painting contractor Frederick Leon Newell , is scheduled to go to trial in March. Why did unionization fall in Minnesota? Unions are enjoying the most robust public support in nearly six decades and winning double digit pay raises for their members, yet the share of the American workforce that is unionized remains stuck at historic lows. In Minnesota, union membership ticked down nearly a full percentage point from 14.2% to 13.3% in 2023, inching closer to the national average of 10%, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The year-to-year dip doesn't reflect a significant loss for unions, according to labor experts. Labor economist Aaron Sojourner said it could be chalked up to imprecise data and strong job gains in the private sector that water down union gains. We have more analysis about this in a story published this morning . Criminal investigation unclear against dairy farm Over the past three years, dairy farmers Keith Schaefer and his daughter Megan Hill stole at least $3 million from hundreds of their workers across central Minnesota, according to a lawsuit filed by Attorney General Keith Ellison earlier this month. Schaefer and Hill, who own Evergreen Acres Dairy and Morgan Feedlots, allegedly shaved 12-32 hours off workers’ paychecks every two weeks, refused to pay workers for their first and last weeks of work and unlawfully deducted rent from their wages for beds in barns, garages and other structures not suitable for human habitation. Stealing anything valued at more than $1,000 is a felony in Minnesota, but Schaefer and Hill were not arrested when they were served notice of the lawsuit at their home in Stearns County. They haven’t been charged with any crimes. The case illustrates both the promise and challenges of Minnesota’s relatively new wage theft law, which seeks to deter a practice that worker advocates say is all too common. Ellison said criminal charges are a “possibility” but it’s unclear if there is a criminal investigation. Walz highlights 31% pay raise for home care workers Gov. Tim Walz visited personal care attendant Felicia Johnson in her south Minneapolis home on Wednesday afternoon to draw attention to the 31% raise she and tens of thousands of other home care workers will receive over the next two years. On Jan. 1, Johnson’s pay as a home care worker increased from $15.25 to $19 an hour and will rise to $20 an hour next year; it’s the largest pay raises workers have received since unionizing in 2014. “Now I don’t have to worry about skipping meals,” Johnson said. The raises were brokered in negotiations between state officials and SEIU Healthcare Minnesota & Iowa, which represents roughly 20,000 home care workers. The contract was ratified by state lawmakers with bipartisan support at the end of the legislative session last year. The contract will likely push up wages for tens of thousands of non-unionized home care workers as well because state lawmakers increased the reimbursement rate for home care services under the state’s Medicaid program as part of the deal. Judge bars Bemidji schools from union interference A Beltrami County judge ordered the Bemidji Area Schools to stop interfering with the union organizing activities of its teachers, Chelsey Perkins and Larissa Donovan reported for KAXE/KBXE. The district tried to stop educators from passing out flyers on school property, according to court documents. The Beltrami County judge sided with the teachers’ union, ruling that the policy requiring outside groups to get permission would cause irreparable harm to union organizing efforts. UAW endorses President Biden President Joe Biden won the critical endorsement of the United Auto Workers union after he became the first sitting U.S. president to visit an active picket line during their strike last fall. UAW President Shawn Fain drew a clear contrast between Biden and Donald Trump during a rousing speech before union workers in Washington, D.C. “It’s not about who you like, it’s not about your party, it’s not about this b—– about age. It’s not about anything but our best shot at taking back power for the working class,” Fain said. “Donald Trump is a scab,” Fain said to loud applause and whistling. “Donald Trump is a billionaire and that’s who he represents. If Donald Trump ever worked in an auto plant, he wouldn’t be a UAW member. He’d be a company man, trying to squeeze the American autoworker.” Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Hennepin County pays $335,000 in back wages to subcontracted security guards by Max Nesterak December 15, 2025 Union says 3 contractors for Hennepin and Ramsey counties may have stolen over $700,000 in wages by Max Nesterak August 14, 2025 First person convicted of felony wage theft in Minnesota sentenced to three years probation by Max Nesterak June 6, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.