Gov. Tim Walz highlights 31% pay increase for unionized home care workers &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 16:38 News Story Government & Politics Health Care Work & Money Gov. Tim Walz highlights 31% pay increase for unionized home care workers By Max Nesterak - January 24, 2024 4:38 pm Gov. Tim Walz prepared an omelette as he shadowed home care worker Felicia Johnson in Minneapolis on Jan. 24, 2024. Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer. Gov. Tim Walz visited personal care attendant Felicia Johnson in her south Minneapolis home on Wednesday afternoon to draw attention to the 31% raise she and tens of thousands of other home care workers will receive over the next two years. Walz helped prepare a spinach omelet — the only dish in his repertoire — for Johnson’s 19-year-old daughter, Hannah Moore, who depends on her mother because of developmental and cognitive disabilities. On Jan. 1, Johnson’s pay as a home care worker increased from $15.25 to $19 an hour and will rise to $20 an hour next year; it’s the largest pay raises workers have received since unionizing in 2014. “Now I don't have to worry about skipping meals,” Johnson said. “Things that people just take for granted every day … can I give my kid an apple or banana? I got to think, can I afford that apple? Can I afford that banana?” The raises were brokered in negotiations between state officials and SEIU Healthcare Minnesota & Iowa, which represents roughly 20,000 home care workers. The contract was ratified by state lawmakers with bipartisan support at the end of the legislative session last year. Workers who had been a home care worker for at least six months in July 2023 will also receive a one-time $1,000 retention bonus, and the contract established a wage scale for the first time, so veteran workers will earn as much as $22.50 an hour by 2025. Home care workers — most of whom are women and people of color — help the state’s elderly and disabled complete daily tasks like cooking, bathing and grooming. Advocates of the program say it saves the state money and improves care residents by allowing them to remain in their homes rather than move into nursing homes or other institutions. “As a state, we care for one another. We care for our neighbors … And we put dignity into work, and that work should come with a living wage,” Walz said. The contract will likely push up wages for tens of thousands of non-unionized home care workers as well because state lawmakers increased the reimbursement rate for home care services under the state’s Medicaid program as part of the deal. It will be up to home care agencies to pass the increased revenue onto workers, which they’re under pressure to do given the ongoing labor shortage. Home care jobs are among the most in-demand in the state , which is only expected to grow as Minnesota’s population ages. But low wages have made it difficult for people to find caregivers, sometimes with devastating consequences . There were more than 13,000 job vacancies for health care support workers in 2022, according to the most recent state data. Johnson makes ends meet by working a second job in a daycare and visiting food shelves. Even so, she said she routinely has had to skip meals, had her electricity cut off and been homeless. “We just, by the skin of our teeth, was able to keep this apartment,” Johnson said. X Republish Post Gov. Tim Walz highlights 31% pay increase for unionized home care workers by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer January 24, 2024 Gov. Tim Walz highlights 31% pay increase for unionized home care workers by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer January 24, 2024 Gov. Tim Walz visited personal care attendant Felicia Johnson in her south Minneapolis home on Wednesday afternoon to draw attention to the 31% raise she and tens of thousands of other home care workers will receive over the next two years. Walz helped prepare a spinach omelet — the only dish in his repertoire — for Johnson’s 19-year-old daughter, Hannah Moore, who depends on her mother because of developmental and cognitive disabilities. On Jan. 1, Johnson’s pay as a home care worker increased from $15.25 to $19 an hour and will rise to $20 an hour next year; it’s the largest pay raises workers have received since unionizing in 2014. “Now I don't have to worry about skipping meals,” Johnson said. “Things that people just take for granted every day … can I give my kid an apple or banana? I got to think, can I afford that apple? Can I afford that banana?” The raises were brokered in negotiations between state officials and SEIU Healthcare Minnesota & Iowa, which represents roughly 20,000 home care workers. The contract was ratified by state lawmakers with bipartisan support at the end of the legislative session last year. Workers who had been a home care worker for at least six months in July 2023 will also receive a one-time $1,000 retention bonus, and the contract established a wage scale for the first time, so veteran workers will earn as much as $22.50 an hour by 2025. Home care workers — most of whom are women and people of color — help the state’s elderly and disabled complete daily tasks like cooking, bathing and grooming. Advocates of the program say it saves the state money and improves care residents by allowing them to remain in their homes rather than move into nursing homes or other institutions. “As a state, we care for one another. We care for our neighbors … And we put dignity into work, and that work should come with a living wage,” Walz said. The contract will likely push up wages for tens of thousands of non-unionized home care workers as well because state lawmakers increased the reimbursement rate for home care services under the state’s Medicaid program as part of the deal. It will be up to home care agencies to pass the increased revenue onto workers, which they’re under pressure to do given the ongoing labor shortage. Home care jobs are among the most in-demand in the state , which is only expected to grow as Minnesota’s population ages. But low wages have made it difficult for people to find caregivers, sometimes with devastating consequences . There were more than 13,000 job vacancies for health care support workers in 2022, according to the most recent state data. Johnson makes ends meet by working a second job in a daycare and visiting food shelves. Even so, she said she routinely has had to skip meals, had her electricity cut off and been homeless. “We just, by the skin of our teeth, was able to keep this apartment,” Johnson said. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom New minimum wages for Minnesota nursing home workers to take effect in September by Max Nesterak August 17, 2026 Gov. Tim Walz’s Minnesota in 8 charts by Alyssa Chen January 7, 2026 Raises for Minnesota nursing home workers will be delayed because of bureaucratic error by Max Nesterak December 12, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.