Special session likely as Minnesota lawmakers struggle to pass remaining budget bills - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Special session likely as Minnesota lawmakers struggle to pass remaining budget bills By WDIO --> Minnesota lawmakers under pressure with the legislative deadline just hours away A special session is all but certain as lawmakers scramble to pass only 6 of the 16 budget bills as the legislative session comes to a close Monday night. The final day of the session came and went yesterday, with Minnesota lawmakers passing only 7 of the 16 budget bills. A special session is almost certain now in order to try and pass the bills that remain. If held, a special session would be scheduled by Minnesota Governor Tim Walz in coordination with the legislature. If the budget isn't complete by June 30th the state government will be shut down for the first time since 2011. "I would caution again for the legislature the first weeks of June. Once we get past June 1st, we'll be obligated then to start looking at what does it look like if you shutdown," said Gov Tim Walz. "That means we send out the layoff notices and things like that. That is not without a cost." Over the past week, lawmakers passed numerous bills in an attempt to catch up to the impending deadline. Both sides felt frustrated as the night came to a close. "I'm concerned that Republicans are driving us to a special session," said Senator Erin Murphy (DFL &#8211; Majority Leader). "I'm concerned about their commitment to finishing this work for the people of Minnesota." "I think what you're seeing right now is Democrats frustration after two years and 18 billion dollars of surplus being spent they're finally having to realize that there are constraints on Minnesota taxpayers," Said Senator Mark Johnson (R &#8211; Minority Leader). "We are not an infinite state of money and ability to pay for whatever projects they want to have." Following the conclusion of the regular session, Speaker Emerita Hortman touched on the importance of bipartisanship in the face of divided viewpoints. “Despite our different visions and values, we managed to reach a bipartisan budget deal in which both sides compromised and did not get everything they wanted," said Hortman. "If we were in charge, the budget deal would look a lot different, and it would do a lot more to lower the cost of living for hardworking Minnesotans. However, in times of divided government, people expect their elected leaders to work together, and that’s exactly what we’ve done." Looking towards what's next, Hortman said, "I remain optimistic that the Legislature and Governor Walz can conclude our work in a timely manner during a short special session in the coming days, but that will only happen if we leave ideological battles to the side and focus on enacting a two-year state budget." --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed