Indigenous youth need community and culture to heal from trauma — Sahan Journal Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Sponsored Content Learn More Advertiser content: This content was commissioned and paid for by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota. The news and editorial staff of Sahan Journal had no role in the creation or production of this story. Indigenous youth need community and culture to heal from trauma Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota August 24, 2026 August 20, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Bryce Premo Credit: Yasmin Yassin By Sadie Fonfara, Roosevelt High School . Additional reporting by Janya Dieringer (Johnson Senior High School), Alaia Scroggins (Wayzata High School), and Christopher Rosales (Roosevelt High School) Several years ago, when Bryce Premo was going through treatment for alcohol abuse and suicidal ideation, he was introduced to a world of inspiring people. “I saw the amazing work people were doing in suicide prevention, and I wanted to be a part of it,” Premo said. Today, Premo, a member of the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe, is the suicide prevention coordinator at the Ain Dah Yung Center in Saint Paul’s Summit Hill neighborhood, providing free and permanent housing for Native American youth facing housing insecurity. He also takes part in leading the American Indian Metro Suicide Coalition, which he helped establish two years ago. While Native people make up only 2% of Minnesota's population, they make up a staggering 30% of Minnesota's homeless population, according to the Minnesota Department of Health. Nationally, Native youth die by suicide at rates much higher than any other ethnic group, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness . The high rates of homelessness play a significant role in their mental health struggles, Premo said. Faced with these disproportionate challenges, the Ain Dah Yung Center, meaning “our home” in the Ojibwe language, provides support for Native youth grounded in Native traditions, like talking circles and smudging. And it seems to be working: In 2024, 100% of the 43 young people who stayed at the center’s emergency shelter stayed enrolled in school. The center’s work raises the question: are community and cultural connections key to healing Native youth? The Ain Dah Yung Center provides housing for more than 40 people at any given time, but their support doesn’t end there. Annually, Ain Dah Yung serves about 3,000 youth, through various programs including emergency housing, afterschool programs and cultural events. At the center, there is a traditional healing garden, a free food pantry and a kitchen where community cooking events take place. There is also a free clothing store for residents with clothing for any occasion. And at the heart of each floor there is a community room, each with a different mural, as well as multiple other community spaces throughout the building. They offer frequent events, including powwows, ceremonies, art, music, and more. Ain Dah Yung values the healing strengths of community for both suicide prevention and healing during crisis and incorporates them into every aspect of their care. “Suicide prevention is not just a crisis-oriented thing. It's when we're out there building community relationships, positive identity or empowering youth. That's what suicide prevention is all about,” Premo said. “Every time I do a community event it's amazing to see the progress that can come in such a short time of just talking with somebody, and being there for them,” Premo said, “It fills me with joy to see other passionate members in the community.” Tascha Just is the president of the Minnesota School Psychologists Association and a member of the Native community. Like Premo, she identifies community as a healing force in young people’s lives. “That's where you get oxytocin, within the community,” Just said, referring to the hormone humans produce when they feel joy and love. “Being able to have those traditional ceremonies was life-changing for me,” she said. Research backs her up. According to an article in the journal Behaviour Research and Therapy , community and culturally-responsive care is a very effective method of treatment and prevention for mental health struggles within Native communities. After centuries of historical trauma within Indigenous communities, the importance of cultural connection is proving vital to healing. Premo says, “There's been study after study showing that when we introduce more cultural prevention methods into the community, the stronger it can get.” A strong community often helps young people overcome the stigma of mental illness – one of the main barriers to asking for and receiving help. Too often, young people are left to struggle with their mental health alone, and for many, asking for help can be half the battle. Community and cultural connection act as medicine. Practicing traditions helps to rebuild broken connections caused by generational trauma and fosters joy and connection. Premo says, “There's a lot of historical trauma, but focusing on the protective factors instead of the trauma can be more sustainable for the community. We have a lot of strengths in the American Indian community, and when we build upon them it really shows.” Shinaana Secody is an actor and intern at the Indigenous Peoples Task Force who grew up struggling with shyness. The Native theater community, she said, helped her to overcome her challenges and helped her embrace creativity. “Thankfully, I grew up learning my traditions,” Secody said. “I carry them with me and practice them every day. It helps my mental health”. For Premo, life is now filled with hope. He spends his time working to provide that same hope for young people by welcoming them into a loving community where they can heal. He wants Native youth to know they are not alone in their struggles. “There is a community that loves and cares about you, and we are here for you day and night. I want to say that I'll remember your name, and we have so many caring people out here, so Miigwech for coming,” he said, using the Ojibwe words for thank you. “Miigwech for showing up.” This story was produced by Minnesota teens through ThreeSixty Journalism ’s 2026 Multimedia Storytelling Institute, funded by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, as part of its commitment to investing in community-led solutions, so everyone has the opportunity to achieve their healthiest life. MORE SPONSORED CONTENT BY BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD OF MINNESOTA Sponsored Content The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List By: Emily Anderson, Director of Policy at Association for Non-Smokers MN The start of a new school year is supposed to be an exciting time filled with new possibilities. Students are heading back to classrooms, reconnecting with friends, joining activities, and looking ahead to everything a new year might bring. But alongside those opportunities comes… Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota 11 hours ago Sponsored Content Youth Journalists Report on Youth Mental Health in Minnesota This July marked the ninth summer that Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota has partnered with ThreeSixty Journalism for their Multimedia Storytelling Institute, a partnership aimed to empower the next generation of journalists, change existing narratives, and give voice to those most impacted by barriers to good health. 22 students participated in the three-week… Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota August 3, 2026 Sponsored Content Middle schoolers are struggling with addiction. They need help, not punishment. By Muhammad Memon, Wayzata High School It was a warm summer night. Mary was at a public park, meeting a guy she’d met on Snapchat. He pulled out a glass pipe and a rock. This was her introduction to hard drugs. Mary was about to start high school. She had been using since she was… Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota February 9, 2026 Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota “Blue Cross® and Blue Shield® of Minnesota and Blue Plus® are nonprofit independent licensees of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.” This content was commissioned and paid for by “Blue Cross® and Blue Shield® of Minnesota. The news and editorial staff of Sahan Journal had no role in the creation or production of this story. Learn more about Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota Tagged: alcohol abuse , mental health , suicide prevention Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Gift this article Close Link Copy link