NPS orders Native activists to clear Coldwater Spring prayer camp Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in PUBLIC SAFETY Tribal leaders push National Park Service to clear prayer camp at Coldwater Spring NPS issued a 24-hour notice on Wednesday telling activists to remove their tipis and vacate the site after nine tribal nations urged the agency to take action. by Shubhanjana Das March 4, 2026 Updated March 6, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Franky Windred Jackson, tribal historic compliance officer at Prairie Island Indian Community, pictured near Coldwater Spring on March 4, 2026. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Update: As of Friday afternoon, March 6, the tipis and the tents have not been removed. Three weeks after a group of Native activists set up a prayer camp of tipis at Coldwater Spring within sight of the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building, the National Park Service and a group of tribal leaders are asking them to leave. NPS employees distributed a notice to those at the camp on Wednesday, giving them 24 hours to clear the site. That followed a meeting between tribal leaders from Minnesota, North and South Dakota, and camp occupants, where leaders explained the sacred nature of the site and asked for them to take down the camp. The tipis went up the week of Feb. 9, with activists at the time expressing concern about the hundreds of immigrants being detained at the Whipple Building, near Fort Snelling, which once held an internment camp for Dakota people. RELATED STORIES ‘Resistance is not a new concept’: Native activists have been on front lines from the beginning of ICE activity Since then, nine tribal nations — including four from Minnesota — have sent letters to the National Parks Service urging Matthew Tucker Blythe, superintendent of the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area, to “take immediate and appropriate action.” A joint statement from the tribes called the camp “an unlawful encampment” by “an informal group of individuals.” “We understand that a group claiming to represent the Oceti Sakowin has gathered at Mni Owe Sni and is demanding that the land be turned over to them,” Grant Johnson, president of the Prairie Island Indian Community, said in the statement. “These individuals do not represent our sovereign tribal governments and do not speak on our behalf.” In its notice to vacate, NPS cited environmental, public health and natural resource protection reasons. “Failure to comply may result in enforcement actions,” the notice from the Department of the Interior said. Following the conversation with tribal leaders Wednesday, some activists vowed to stay at the camp. The group also sent out a call on Signal for volunteers and legal observers to protect the site if law enforcement moves in. “This ain't for political views, this ain’t for the monies,” Cordney Locke, a Minneapolis resident and a member of the Oglala Sioux Tribe told Sahan Journal. “This is actually for spiritual enrichment, cultural practices, restorative for our cultural and spiritual practices where we can connect back with the Earth.” He said that the group at the encampment has been hosting sweat lodges as well as hoping to teach the younger Native population in the Twin Cities about Native traditions and culture. “All that is no reason to come down and show animosity and negative behaviors and to think it's a political thing when it's not.” Dina Johnson, who is from Northern Cheyenne Nation and Pine Ridge Lakota, was there to support her daughter who believes the tipis should remain. “If we really say we're all related, which we say that a lot in our ceremony ways, we have to start standing and really speaking that and really bringing it to the heart,” she said. Johnson added that there's always been a risk of being arrested by ICE or the police. “It's just that was said by our own people,” she said. Tribal members from across the midwest have setup a camp, pictured February 11, 2026, on a historically significant site overlooking the Whipple building used by federal agents as a base for immigration enforcement. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal The tipis were erected by a multi-tribal group who told Sahan Journal at the time that they were negotiating for Fort Snelling State Park, and historic Fort Snelling itself, to be returned to the Dakota people. The tipis stand at Coldwater Spring, also known as Mni Owe Sni, a sacred Dakota site near Fort Snelling known to be a traditional gathering place for Native American tribes of the upper Mississippi that used the springwater for specific ceremonies. It was also recognised as a Traditional Cultural Property (TCP) on the National Register of Historic Places in 2023. “Current actions by those in the encampment disregard established preservation protocols and threaten the integrity of a site that holds deep spiritual and cultural significance,” the joint statement from the tribal nations said. A letter to the superintendent, signed by Sisseton Wahpeton Oyate, Crow Creek Sioux Tribe, and Spirit Lake Tribe, also cited concerns about ecological damage to the site owing to the fire pits and the tipis and tents erected. It said that such actions are a “serious risk of irreparable harm to potential archaeological resources and directly undermine ongoing restoration efforts intended to preserve native plant life and protect the broader ecosystem of this culturally significant landscape.” “The current "land back refuge" occupation directly jeopardizes the integrity of the site's setting, feeling, and association,” a separate letter by the Fort Peck Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes said. Locke said that those maintaining the camp want to “hear directly from the elders” and “sit traditionally and talk to them and where we can reestablish if that's something that we can do.” Asked on what might happen next given the 24-hour notice to evacuate, he said that “we're going to have to see what options there is and how we can just remain standing.” READ MORE Lawsuit over Renee Good’s killing names ICE officer, Stephen Miller and Kristi Noem ICE agent pleads not guilty in federal court for allegedly lying about north Minneapolis shooting ICE agent charged in Minneapolis shooting allegedly plotted escape to Mexico, prosecutors say Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Fort Snelling , Minneapolis , Minnesota , Minnesota Native American tribes , Native American tribes , St. Paul Shubhanjana Das sdas@sahanjournal.com Shubhanjana Das is a reporter at Sahan Journal. She is a journalist from India and previously worked as a reporting fellow at Sahan before stepping into her current role. Before moving to the U.S., she... More by Shubhanjana Das Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close