3 dead in suspected murder-suicide at Hopkins daycare, suspect linked to Burnsville homicide - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture 3 dead in suspected murder-suicide at Hopkins daycare, suspect linked to Burnsville homicide By WDIO/KSTP --> Law enforcement is investigating a triple homicide at an at-home daycare in Hopkins (8-12-26) Law enforcement said a man, woman and a child are dead after what is being investigated as a potential murder-suicide in an at-home daycare in Hopkins. Chief Brent Johnson of the Hopkins Police Department said a parent who was dropping their child off at the residence, which is located on the 200 block of Tyler Avenue North, reported the scene just after 9AM on Wednesday. Officials said when law enforcement went inside the residence, they found a 41-year-old man dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, along with a 41-year-old woman and a 7-year-old child dead from apparent stab wounds. All victims were part of the same family. Investigators also linked the incident to another homicide that happened in Burnsville, where a 78-year-old woman was deceased with stab wounds. Law enforcement believes that the 78-year-old victim is "a close family relative," with Burnsville Police Chief Matt Smith claiming that the male suspect in the Hopkins incident was also recently living in the Burnsville home in which the woman was found. Their relationship is unclear at this time. Chief Johnson said six other children that were found inside the daycare, all described as "very young," were unharmed and released back to their families. “There’s no worse scenario than this,” Chief Johnson said. “You drop your children off somewhere you think is safe and you get that phone call.” Chief Johnson explained that this appeared to be an isolated incident, and there is no further threat to the public. Investigators are working to determine the nature of the victims' injuries, and what weapons were involved. This is a developing news story and will be updated as more information becomes available. For Related Stories: Crime Minnesota murder-suicide --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed