AG Ellison announces new Medicaid fraud charges, including against a Duluth provider - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture AG Ellison announces new Medicaid fraud charges, including against a Duluth provider By WDIO --> Duluth man charged with $2.2M Medicaid Fraud Minnesota's Attorney General announced new criminal charges against nine people related to Medicaid program fraud. Minnesota Attorney General Keith Elison announced new criminal charges against nine people related to Medicaid program fraud, Tuesday afternoon. These charges were filed by the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit. The charges account for over $3 million worth of fraud, with one Duluth based provider charged with over $2.2 million in fraud. According to the criminal complaint, Peter Meilahn, provide psychotherapy and behavioral health services. "Through this investigation, I discovered that MEILAHN submitted claims for Medicaid reimbursement for services he did not provide and used the identities of Medicaid recipients to submit or cause another to submit claims on his behalf that he knew were ineligible for Medicaid reimbursement," said the criminal complaint. "The value of the fraudulently submitted claims exceeds $2,250,000.00." FULL PRESS CONFERENCE: THOSE CHARGED TODAY: Peter Jason Meilahn, of Duluth, charged with eleven felony theft offences and two felony identity theft offenses. Accused of defrauding $2.2 million and submitting 27,400 false claims. Awo Mohamed, of Roseville, charged with six felony theft offenses. Accused of defrauding over $675,000. Mark Anthony Johnson, of Brooklyn Park, charged with four felony theft offenses. Connected to Mohamed's scheme. Qalid Hussein Hassan, of Bloomington, charged with three felony theft offenses. Connected to Mohamed's scheme. Angela Ruth Johnson, of Minneapolis, charged with six felony theft offenses. Connected to Mohamed's scheme. Kiddjazzmarie Cherrall Freeman, of Minneapolis, charged with twelve felony counts. Accused of defrauding $17,000. Michelle Tyrese Lucas Reed, of Minneapolis, charged with six felony theft offenses. Accused of defrauding $42,000. Letrice Spigner, of Minneapolis, charged with five felony theft offenses. Accused of defrauding $77,000. Chala Bekama Alemo, of St. Paul, charged with four felony theft offenses. Accused of defrauding $34,000. “The many charges we are filing today allege various amounts of fraud, but even one dollar stolen in defrauding a government program is too much,” Attorney General Ellison said. “It outrages me that some people steal taxpayer money that we as a society have decided should support low-income folks who need specialized services so they can live with dignity, safety, and respect. Our job in Attorney General’s Office is to root out these Medicaid fraudsters and hold them accountable, no matter how much or how little they steal. Anyone even thinking about stealing from Medicaid needs to know we take that job very seriously and we are very good at it." Attorney General Ellison’s Medicaid Fraud Control Unit investigates and prosecutes Medicaid fraud and abuse. The unit is funded by a $5,078,704 federal grant and $1,692,898 from the State of Minnesota for fiscal year 2026. The unit was announced several charges already this year. RELATED: Minneapolis Medicaid provider charged with theft after $3 million fraud case 6931_Peter-Meilahn_Complaint Download For Related Stories: Minnesota Fraud Keith Ellison Medicaid --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed