Gubernatorial candidate Jeff Johnson drops out of race after daughter killed in St. Cloud - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Gubernatorial candidate Jeff Johnson drops out of race after daughter killed in St. Cloud KSTP/WDIO WDIO --> (Courtesy of Vote for Jeff Johnson) Minnesota gubernatorial candidate Jeff Johnson has dropped out of the governor’s race after his daughter was killed on Saturday night in St. Cloud, according to an announcement from the Republican Party of Minnesota. St. Cloud police say officers responded to a home on the 3100 block of 40th Avenue South on a report of a medical emergency around 8:20 p.m. on Saturday. At the scene, investigators found 22-year-old Hallie Marie Tobler deceased with multiple stab wounds. They also found her husband with stab wounds that are believed to be self-inflicted. As of Sunday night, he was in the hospital, but he will eventually be booked into Stearns County Jail. The Republican Party of Minnesota identified Hallie Tobler as Johnson’s daughter. “Out of respect for his family and the enormity of this loss, Jeff has suspended his campaign for Governor of Minnesota,” the post reads. “We ask all Minnesotans to join us in lifting up the Johnson family during this incredibly painful time.” For Related Stories: Election 2026 --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed