Republicans press for ethics investigation into senator charged with burglary &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 15:08 News Story Criminal Justice & Policing Government & Politics Republicans press for ethics investigation into senator charged with burglary Senate deadlocks on motion to launch probe immediately By Deena Winter - April 24, 2024 3:08 pm Co-chairs of the omnibus veterans and military affairs finance bill conference committee, Sen. Nicole Mitchell and Rep. Jerry Newton, listen to a public testifier May 1, 2023. Photo by Catherine Davis/Minnesota House Public Information Services. Republican senators filed an ethics complaint Wednesday against state Sen. Nicole Mitchell, a Democrat from Woodbury, after she was charged Tuesday with burglarizing her stepmother’s home. According to a police report, she drove over three hours from Woodbury to Detroit Lakes in northwest Minnesota; police found her shortly before 5 a.m. in her stepmother’s basement dressed in black clothing and a black hat, brandishing a flashlight encased in a black sock. She was seeking to retrieve some of her late father’s possessions because her stepmother had stopped communicating, according to the police report. With Mitchell missing, the motion failed 33-33. The Senate did not take up other bills as planned Wednesday. Democrats, who control the Senate by a single vote, have to deal with a legislative to-do list while fending off public pressure to dump Mitchell, who’s indicated she has no interest in resigning. Republicans said Mitchell should face a Senate investigation and potential removal. Dressed in all black — as opposed to his usual colorful pastels — Sen. Eric Lucero, R-Saint Michael, said an ethics investigation needs to begin immediately, and read from the criminal complaint on the Senate floor, including the part where Mitchell allegedly told police “I know I did something bad.” Sen. Nick Frentz, DFL-North Mankato, said under our criminal system, Mitchell is presumed innocent and deserves due process. Republicans warned that if lawmakers don’t begin an investigation immediately, the legislative session could end before it’s complete. The session is scheduled to end May 20. “We are very committed to due process in this body,” said Senate Minority Leader Mark Johnson, R-East Grand Forks. Sen. Zach Duckworth, R-Lakeville, said Minnesotans are taking the case very seriously and the Senate needs to be able to continue to govern. Sen. Ron Latz, DFL-St. Louis Park, chair of the Judiciary and Public Safety Committee, said senators should not act as judge and jury, and should not rush to judgment with an “unprecedented” attempt to bypass the usual ethics committee process. Johnson said the Senate would be under a “cloud of doubt” for the rest of the session, noting many big bills pass by one vote. Senate President Bobby Joe Champion, DFL-Minneapolis, said it would be unprecedented for the Senate to deny Mitchell due process. “The trust of the public has been violated,” Lucero argued, saying senators must adhere to the “highest ethical standards." X Republish Post Republicans press for ethics investigation into senator charged with burglary by Deena Winter, Minnesota Reformer April 24, 2024 Republicans press for ethics investigation into senator charged with burglary by Deena Winter, Minnesota Reformer April 24, 2024 Republican senators filed an ethics complaint Wednesday against state Sen. Nicole Mitchell, a Democrat from Woodbury, after she was charged Tuesday with burglarizing her stepmother’s home. According to a police report, she drove over three hours from Woodbury to Detroit Lakes in northwest Minnesota; police found her shortly before 5 a.m. in her stepmother’s basement dressed in black clothing and a black hat, brandishing a flashlight encased in a black sock. She was seeking to retrieve some of her late father’s possessions because her stepmother had stopped communicating, according to the police report. With Mitchell missing, the motion failed 33-33. The Senate did not take up other bills as planned Wednesday. Democrats, who control the Senate by a single vote, have to deal with a legislative to-do list while fending off public pressure to dump Mitchell, who’s indicated she has no interest in resigning. Republicans said Mitchell should face a Senate investigation and potential removal. Dressed in all black — as opposed to his usual colorful pastels — Sen. Eric Lucero, R-Saint Michael, said an ethics investigation needs to begin immediately, and read from the criminal complaint on the Senate floor, including the part where Mitchell allegedly told police “I know I did something bad.” Sen. Nick Frentz, DFL-North Mankato, said under our criminal system, Mitchell is presumed innocent and deserves due process. Republicans warned that if lawmakers don’t begin an investigation immediately, the legislative session could end before it’s complete. The session is scheduled to end May 20. “We are very committed to due process in this body,” said Senate Minority Leader Mark Johnson, R-East Grand Forks. Sen. Zach Duckworth, R-Lakeville, said Minnesotans are taking the case very seriously and the Senate needs to be able to continue to govern. Sen. Ron Latz, DFL-St. Louis Park, chair of the Judiciary and Public Safety Committee, said senators should not act as judge and jury, and should not rush to judgment with an “unprecedented” attempt to bypass the usual ethics committee process. Johnson said the Senate would be under a “cloud of doubt” for the rest of the session, noting many big bills pass by one vote. Senate President Bobby Joe Champion, DFL-Minneapolis, said it would be unprecedented for the Senate to deny Mitchell due process. “The trust of the public has been violated,” Lucero argued, saying senators must adhere to the “highest ethical standards." Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Deena Winter Deena Winter has covered local and state government in four states over the past three decades, with stints at the Bismarck Tribune in North Dakota, as a correspondent for the Denver Post, city hall reporter in Lincoln, Nebraska, and regional editor for Southwest News in the western Minneapolis suburbs. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Prosecutors have brought over 3,500 charges for marijuana possession in cars since legalization by Max Nesterak December 9, 2025 Sen. Nicole Mitchell found guilty of felony burglary by Michelle Griffith July 18, 2025 Sen. Nicole Mitchell’s felony burglary trial begins Monday. Here’s what you need to know. by Michelle Griffith July 11, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.