Minneapolis City Council narrowly passes Uber, Lyft ordinance Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in BUSINESS & WORK Minneapolis City Council passes ordinance requiring increased wages for Uber and Lyft drivers, but falls short of veto-proof majority Council votes narrowly in favor of ordinance after a letter from Mayor Jacob Frey saying that it needed more time. by Alfonzo Galvan August 17, 2023 Updated August 18, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Abdullahi Abdi, a member of the Minnesota Uber/Lyft Drivers Association, sits in the vehicle he uses to ferry passengers across the Twin Cities metro area. Abdullahi attended an information meeting on August 2, 2023, about a proposed rideshare ordinance in Minneapolis. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up The Minneapolis City Council passed a proposed ordinance Thursday that would grant rideshare drivers in the city increased wages, rights and protections, but failed to win enough votes to overcome a possible veto by Mayor Jacob Frey. The vote came days after both Uber and Lyft emailed riders in the city and told the city council they’d cease operations in Minneapolis should the ordinance pass . related sTORIES Uber, Lyft threaten to pull out of Minneapolis if council approves proposed ordinance Proposed Uber, Lyft ordinance heads to Minneapolis City Council for approval Uber, Lyft drivers call for wage increase as Minneapolis considers rideshare ordinance It also followed Governor Tim Walz's veto in May of a bill passed by the Legislature that would have increased wages for ride-share drivers throughout Minnesota. After his veto, the governor announced the creation of a committee tasked with researching rideshare issues and helping shape policy for next year’s legislative session. Frey was noncommittal in stating whether or not he’d support the ordinance until he emailed the council Wednesday night, telling them the ordinance needed more time. He has not said yet whether he will veto it. Frey has until 5 p.m. on Wednesday to veto the ordinance. Supporters of the ordinance needed nine votes to avoid a possible veto. The council voted 7-5 in favor of the proposal. Before its vote to approve the proposal, some council members tried unsuccessfully to send it back to committee. “This is going to be a great day for us,” said Eid Ali, president of the Minnesota Uber/Lyft Drivers Association before the council meeting started. Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up Eid Ali, Minnesota Uber/Lyft Drivers Association president, says there’s no reason any council member should vote against the ordinance. pic.twitter.com/WhlUODFBLr — Alfonzo “FoFo” Galvan (@GalvanReports) August 17, 2023 Uber and Lyft drivers packed the chambers and overflow rooms at City Hall as they awaited the outcome of the vote. Many drivers could be seen pacing the halls outside the chambers in frustration as Council member Andrew Johnson voiced his issues with the ordinance. After the vote, however, the venue erupted with celebration. Council member and lead author of the ordinance, Robin Wonsley, embraced supporters with tears running down her face. “The ball is in Mayor Frey’s court,” Wonsley said. “I'm glad at least the majority of my colleagues decided to stand with our drivers.” Eid addressed supporters alongside Wonsley and said the drivers were confident Frey would support the ordinance. Eid along with other MULDA members said they had a phone call with Frey in the last week. “He kind of said he was going to talk to people from different backgrounds on this issue,” Eid said, “We didn’t have any commitment, we’re expecting him to just be the mayor of the people and to support the workers.” @MayorFrey sent the council an email last night urging them to not take action today. He wants more time to deliberate the ordinance. Unless there’s a nine vote majority today it’s looking like this ordinance isn’t passing. We’re still waiting for the vote. — Alfonzo “FoFo” Galvan (@GalvanReports) August 17, 2023 Lyft sent a statement to Sahan Journal after the ordinance passed, reiterating its argument that the ordinance was rushed through the city council. “If it becomes law, drivers would ultimately earn less because prices could double and only the most wealthy could still afford a ride,” said the statement. “We support a minimum earning standard for drivers, but it should be part of a broader statewide solution that also protects driver independence. That's why we urge Mayor Frey to veto this bill and instead allow time for the state's rideshare task force to complete its research." Freddi Goldstein, an Uber spokeswoman, said the company was "disappointed" after hearing about the vote's results. She said Uber would limit their services should the ordinance be enacted. "As a result of the incredibly expensive rates set forth in the bill, if it becomes law, beginning December 31, we will no longer offer UberX in Minneapolis," Goldstein said. "We will only offer premium products, such as Uber Black and Uber SUV, to match the premium prices required by the ordinance.” The ordinance would guarantee drivers a minimum compensation of $0.51 per minute and $1.40 per mile while they are transporting a customer. That would have increased annually proportional to the city’s minimum wage. An amendment added before the ordinance passed also states drivers would be paid $1.81 per mile and $0.51 per minute for the time transporting a rider in a wheelchair accessible vehicle. Uber gives riders in Minneapolis a separate wheelchair accessible vehicle option when booking a ride. It would also allow drivers more rights when fighting “deactivations” or shutdowns of their accounts by the apps after a complaint, and granted them more safety features, such as not allowing riders to sign up to be picked up with a gift card. Riders using gift cards who engage in criminal activity are harder to trace, according to drivers. @TheMulda called for @MayorFrey to “champion” this issue and become their hero. He said drivers haven’t got a commitment yet from the mayor but he has spoken to them. pic.twitter.com/ihLkQfLpPM — Alfonzo “FoFo” Galvan (@GalvanReports) August 17, 2023 Four of the 13 council members who spoke to Sahan Journal prior to the council meeting said they supported the proposed ordinance. Council member Robin Wonsley, lead author of the proposed ordinance, along with fellow council members Jason Chavez and Jamal Osman, led the effort to get the ordinance to a full council vote. The only other council member who said they’d support the proposal was Elliott Payne. Wonsley, Chavez, Osman and Payne were joined in supporting the proposal by fellow council members Jeremiah Ellison, Aisha Chughtai and Andrea Jenkins. Council members LeTrisha Vetaw, Michael Rainville, Andrew Johnson, Emily Koski and Linea Palmisano voted against the ordinance. In order to overcome a possible veto, supporters would have to persuade two of them to change their position on the proposal. READ MORE East Side businesses say summer of roadwork has slowed recovery after Metro Surge ‘This is not over’: As Lake Street cash mobs wrap up, immigrant businesses still face headwinds Minnesota State Fair food review: Chinese Sausage and Cheese Poppers are a must-try, but skip the Soul Roll Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Lyft , Minneapolis City Council , Minnesota Uber & Lyft Driver&#039;s Association , Minnesota Uber/Lyft Drivers Association , Uber Alfonzo Galvan agalvan@sahanjournal.com x Alfonzo Galvan was a reporter for Sahan Journal, who covered work, labor, small business, and entrepreneurship. Before joining Sahan Journal, he covered breaking news and immigrant communities in South... More by Alfonzo Galvan Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close