Police, fire investigate fire at Enbridge's Superior offices - Superior Telegram | News, weather, sports from Superior Wisconsin Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Police, fire investigate fire at Enbridge's Superior offices Graffiti was found on signs and the building, which is in the process of being sold to Superior Learning Academy. Members of both the Superior Fire Department and Superior Police Department look over a burned area on top of the Enbridge offices as graffiti can be seen on the walls of the building on Monday morning, Sept. 14. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group By Shelley Nelson September 14, 2026 at 8:56 AM Listen Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? SUPERIOR — Police and fire investigators are investigating a fire that broke out in the early morning hours of Monday, Sept. 14, at the Enbridge building at 119 N. 25th St. E. The Superior police and fire departments responded to a report of visible flames and smoke coming from the building around 1:41 a.m. ADVERTISEMENT According to a police department news release, officers noticed graffiti painted on signs and the building as firefighters worked to extinguish the fire. Police tape keeps a perimeter around the Enbridge offices as a Superior fire truck drives in Monday morning, Sept. 14. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group According to police dispatch reports, two people dressed in black accessed the roof with a ladder and three fires were set with a container with a flare. Firefighters were able to extinguish the flames. No one was in the building, and no one was injured. "The entire situation is unfortunate — especially for the school that was planning to move into the building," said Juli Kellner, an Enbridge spokesperson. Superior firefighters survey damage from above from a fire at the Enbridge offices on Monday morning. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group Most Enbridge staff had already moved out of the building, which was in the process of being sold to the Superior Learning Academy, Kellner said. She said the company is working on next steps and would support prosecution of individuals responsible for the fire. Fire Chief Camron Vollbrecht said the fire is suspicious, and the blaze largely damaged the structure's roof. Graffiti reading “Ashes you shall be Enbridge…” is spray painted near the roof of the Enbridge offices in Superior. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group A Superior Fire Department truck drives past Superior police officer Adam Johnson as it nears the Enbridge offices Monday morning. Jed Carlson / Duluth Media Group This story was updated at 1:27 p.m. Sept. 14 with comments from an Enbridge spokesperson and the Superior fire chief, and at 2:15 p.m. with additional photos. It was originally posted at 8:56 a.m. Sept. 14. Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags FIRES By Shelley Nelson Shelley Nelson is a reporter with the Duluth Media Group since 1997, and has covered Superior and Douglas County communities and government for the Duluth News Tribune from 1999 to 2006, and the Superior Telegram since 2006. Contact her at 715-395-5022 or snelson@superiortelegram.com. Facebook Listen to this article What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 7h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 12h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.