‘We already knew,’ community members say of DOJ investigation into Minneapolis police misconduct — Sahan Journal Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in PUBLIC SAFETY ‘We already knew,’ community members say of DOJ investigation into Minneapolis police misconduct Community members say they must play a vital role in drafting reforms for Minneapolis police in light of a federal investigation that found patterns of discrimination and excessive force. by Katelyn Vue June 16, 2023 Updated June 21, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Aaron Abram, of Minnesota Justice Coalition, speaks at a June 16, 2023, news conference, questioning whether a recently released report on racial discrimination by Minneapolis police will prompt real change in the way police interact with the community. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Several community members said Friday they’ve long experienced violent encounters with Minneapolis police but felt ignored. They expressed a mix of frustration, determination, and measured contentment about the recent results of a federal investigation that corroborated their experiences. Officials from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) shared findings Friday morning that show Minneapolis police regularly violate the public’s constitutional rights, use excessive force against adults and children, discriminate against Black and Indigenous people during traffic stops, and retaliate against community members and the media. “So, my concern when I hear about the DOJ’s report is not the factual facts in the report,” said Jess Sundin, a representative of Twin Cities Coalition for Justice 4 Jamar. “We already knew them. It’s great to see them written down. My concern is about what's next.” @sahanjournal Community members call for more accountability after the U.S. Department of Justice revealed its investigation findings on Minneapolis police misconduct. The investigation found that Minneapolis police regularly violate the public’s constitutional rights, use excessive force against adults and children, discriminate against Black and Indigenous people during traffic stops, and retaliate against community members and the media. #mpd #police #minnesota #doj #accountability ♬ original sound &#8211; Sahan Journal As a result of the findings, the Department of Justice, the city of Minneapolis, and Minneapolis police reached an “agreement in principle” to enter a consent decree where they would agree to reform measures that are enforced by a federal court and monitored by an independent body. Speakers at a community news conference Friday reacting to the development say the community should help create the consent decree. Federal officials said at a separate news conference that there’s no clear timeline for when the consent decree would be finalized, noting that it could take several months to a year. “We still need your help to bringing change and adherence to the constitution by our government,” said Aaron Abram, a representative of the Minnesota Justice Coalition. “However, we need a systemic reset that prioritizes our collective humanity. It was said a long time ago, and I’ll say it again, ‘There’s always a right time to do the right thing.’ And this report shows they haven’t been doing the right thing.” Nekima Levy Armstrong, a longtime civil rights activist and attorney, also spoke at the news conference. “Although the Justice Department head Merrick Garland did not give specific examples of native-born African Americans who would have been killed by police, it has really been on the backs of those individuals—whose names many people do not know, whose faces they have not seen, whose stories they have not heard—that really brought us here today,” she said. “In addition to, of course, the brutal police killing of George Floyd on May 25, 2020.” Ruth Buffalo, a former North Dakota State Representative, was in town and invited to speak by Armstong. “We see the injustices day in and day out, over 500 years,” said Buffalo, referring to Indigenous community members. “As the original peoples of these lands, we continue to not be seen or be treated as human beings.” The federal investigation found that Minneapolis police unlawfully discriminate against Black and Indigenous people during traffic stops, a violation of the 1968 Safe Streets Act. Officers search them and use force against them at much higher rates than for white people who are pulled over, even when each group displays similar behavior. Activist Michelle Gross (left) speaks at a June 16, 2023, news conference about the U.S. Department of Justice's finding that Minneapolis Police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Activist Nekima Levy-Armstrong (left) speaks at a June 16, 2023, news conference about the U.S. Department of Justice's finding that Minneapolis Police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Jerome Richardson, of Minnesota Teen Activists, speaks at a June 16, 2023, news conference about the U.S. Department of Justice's finding that Minneapolis police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Former Minnesota State Representative John Thompson speaks at a June 16, 2023, news conference about the Department of Justice's finding that Minneapolis police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Thompson's best friend, Philando Castile, was killed by St. Anthony police in 2016. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Toshira Garaway, leader of Families Supporting Families Against Police Violence, listens to Valerie Castile speak at a rally in Minneapolis on June 16, 2023. Community members gathered in response to findings from the U.S. Department of Justice that Minneapolis police engaged in discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Valerie Castile, whose son Philando Castile was fatally shot by St. Anthony police in 2016, speaks at a June 16, 2023, rally in downtown Minneapolis, asking whether a Department of Justice investigation into Minneapolis police would bring about change. Community members gathered in response to findings from the DOJ that Minneapolis police engaged in discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Adre Locke, father of Amir Locke, responds to the Department of Justice's findings that Minneapolis police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Minneapolis police fatally shot Amir Locke in 2022 while executing a no-knock search warrant; Locke was not the subject of the warrant. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Monique Johnson (center) holds a photo of her son, Howard, who was killed by St. Paul Police in 2022. Community members gathered in downtown Minneapolis in response to findings from the U.S. Department of Justice that Minneapolis police engaged in discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Attorney Jefferey Storms (right) speaks on behalf of family members whose loved ones have been killed by Minnesota police. Storms represented George Floyd's family after Floyd was murdered by Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in 2020. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Cindy Sundeberg holds up a photo of her son, Tekle, who was killed by a Minneapolis police sniper in July 2022 during a standoff with police. Community members rallied in downtown Minneapolis in response to findings from the U.S. Department of Justice that Minneapolis police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Community activist and teacher Marcia Howard bears a wooden sign emblazoned with the cross streets E. 38th Street and Chicago Avenue, where Minneapolis police murdered George Floyd in 2020. Community members gathered in response to findings from the U.S. Department of Justice that Minneapolis police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Attorney Jefferey Storms (center) speaks on behalf of family members whose loved ones have been killed by Minnesota police. Storms represented George Floyd's family after Floyd was murdered by Minneapolis police in 2020. Community members gathered in response to findings from the U.S. Department of Justice that Minneapolis police engaged in a pattern of discrimination and excessive use of force. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Some community members said they were content with most of the report’s findings. But others said they were disappointed that the investigation didn’t look at the treatment of homeless people. Police accountability organizations that hosted the news conference at Minneapolis City Hall, where Minneapolis police are headquartered, included Communities United Against Police Brutality, Black Lives Twin Cities Metro, Families Support Families Against Police Violence, Twin Cities Coalition for Justice 4 Jamar, and the Wayfinder Foundation. Michelle Gross, president of Communities United Against Police Brutality, said she was also disappointed that the report did not cover “the lack of meaningful investigations” into police violence that led to civilian deaths. “It felt to me, like finally somebody’s saying it,” Gross said of the DOJ report. “But the reality is there was no surprises in that report. Everything that is in that report is something we said. I do see the community's fingerprints all over this report&#8230; “I was pleased that they captured what the community had to say. I am a little distressed because they did not cover two of the areas we asked them to cover.” Gross said her group helped federal authorities on the investigation from the beginning. The investigation was announced in April 2021 after jurors convicted former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin of murdering George Floyd in 2020 by kneeling on his neck for more than nine minutes. “Our main part of it [is] to keep the community at the table, and not just at the table but at the head of the table,” Gross said. For the past two summers, canvassers gathered 2,300 written testimonies of police misconduct for federal investigators, she said. Her group also connected federal investigators to people with disabilities, homeless people, and families who lost a family member to police violence. “It was important to us to make sure that their investigation was as important as it could be. And to do that we needed to put people in touch with them that could really inform that investigation,” Gross said. There were several experts involved in the investigation who focused on areas like the American with Disabilities Act and mental health. More than a dozen federal investigators worked with Gross’ group. “I give a lot of credit to the DOJ,” Gross said of the investigation, adding that her group will be publishing a document soon outlining what the community wants to see in the consent decree. Civil rights attorneys Ben Crump, Tony Romanucci, and Jeff Storms, who represented George Floyd family’s family in a lawsuit against Minneapolis, released a statement about the report. “We do believe this report and the action steps that should follow give hope that the federal government will compel the change that the City of Minneapolis and its police department has long failed to create from within,” the statement said. “For too long, Minneapolis has failed to address persistent, unlawful, and widespread patterns and practices that have detrimentally, and too often lethally, damaged the community, particularly Black and Native citizens and individuals who struggle with mental health.” Families Supporting Families Against Police Violence held a press conference outside of the Hennepin County Government Center on Friday evening. The organization, composed of people whose family members have been killed by Minnesota police officers, seeks transparency and accountability into their loved ones' deaths. A group of about 20 attendees expressed cautious hope about a potential federal consent degree that would compel Minneapolis police to enact reform, but they also questioned if genuine change was possible. Aaron Nesheim contributed to this report. READ MORE Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Minneapolis Police Department , police reform , police use-of-force , U.S. Department of Justice Katelyn Vue kvue@sahanjournal.com x Katelyn Vue is the immigration reporter for Sahan Journal. She graduated in May 2022 from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities. Prior to joining Sahan Journal, she was a metro reporting intern at the... More by Katelyn Vue Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close