St. Louis County Board caps tax levy increase at 6.3% - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local St. Louis County Board caps tax levy increase at 6.3% The levy increase will be offset by growth in the county's tax base from new construction. The St. Louis County Courthouse in Duluth. Ryley Graham / Duluth Media Group file photo By Jake Przytarski September 10, 2026 at 5:32 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — The St. Louis County Board of Commissioners gave initial approval for the 2027 maximum tax levy, capping the increase at 6.25%, or $12.67 million, during its Sept. 1, meeting. The board will vote to finalize the proposed levy, which is estimated at $215 million, at its Sept. 22 meeting before holding its final vote on both the 2027 budget and levy on Dec. 15. The levy is the portion of the budget funded through property taxes. ADVERTISEMENT The proposed 6.25% levy increase will be offset by a 7% growth in the county's property tax base over the past year, driven by a $337 million in new construction. “That's a record-setting amount for the county, and of course, the larger tax capacity base and growth help to make it more affordable and offset the impacts of the proposed levy increase,” said St. Louis County Administrator Kevin Gray. The county's estimated market value grew by $1.89 billion. Residential and seasonal residential properties saw the largest valuation change, with a total value increase of $1.3 billion. To cap the increase at 6.25% the county is making spending cuts to absorb $12.1 million in additional operating expenses. The county plans to manage the costs through a series of staff reductions, restructuring and service changes and the targeted use of fund balance, or accumulated reserves for particular costs. "None of these changes is ideal," said County Board Chair Mike Jugovich in a news release. "But we know our taxpayers need us to cut costs, and so we looked at every line in the budget and made difficult decisions. But even as we were figuring out ways to live within our means, the federal and state governments were shifting new costs to us." MORE FROM JAKE PRZYTARSKI: St. Louis County Board delays Greenwood boundary hearing 3d ago Johnson, Kehr joust in District 8A candidate forum 5d ago Candidates spar in St. Louis County Board race 6d ago The proposed levy includes investments in public safety, with the addition of seven positions within the Sheriff's Office to hire deputies, 911 dispatch personnel and jail corrections officers. Public Health and Human Services will also be restructured in order to meet federal SNAP eligibility criteria, support the Minnesota African American Family Preservation Child Welfare Disproportionality Act and accommodate state cost shifts in the Long-Term Services and Supports disability waiver program. ADVERTISEMENT Staff salary adjustments and rising health insurance expenses additionally contribute to the levy total. St. Louis County maintains a workforce of 1,900 employees serving 200,000 residents across a 7,000-square-mile area. “We are the architects of this county’s future,” Commissioner Annie Harala said in a news release. “We are keeping our financial house in order today so that we don’t have an infrastructure crisis five years from now. We are building a map toward a county where every family has a path to prosper.” Under Minnesota law, counties must establish their maximum property tax levy prior to the end of September. Ahead of the Dec. 15 vote, as county staff and the board refine the 2027 budget, the levy ceiling may be lowered, but it cannot be raised. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags ST. LOUIS COUNTY BOARD ST. LOUIS COUNTY TAXES By Jake Przytarski Jake Przytarski is a news reporter for the Duluth News Tribune covering St. Louis County, transportation and environmental issues. Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 7h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 12h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.