Members of Democratic caucus press ICE for answers on detainment of pregnant women &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 13:47 republished DC Bureau immigration Members of Democratic caucus press ICE for answers on detainment of pregnant women By Ariana Figueroa - November 18, 2025 1:47 pm Updated 3:38 pm A woman is detained by federal agents after exiting a hearing in immigration court at the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building on Sept. 3, 2025 in New York City. (Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images) WASHINGTON — More than 60 members of the congressional Democratic Women’s Caucus Tuesday sent a letter to the head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raising “extreme concerns” about the treatment of pregnant immigrants in detention. “The health and safety of pregnant women should not be threatened as a result of the administration choosing not to adhere to Federal regulations,” the 61 Democratic lawmakers wrote to ICE Acting Director Todd Lyons. “That is why we urge the administration to fully comply with the existing regulations and immediately correct the violations.” They specifically cited concerns at ICE facilities in Lumpkin, Georgia; Basile, Louisiana; and Broadview, Illinois. “At the detention centers, it was reported that pregnant women were being shackled, locked in restraints, or placed in solitary confinement,” they wrote, citing American Civil Liberties Union reports. The women have also been deprived of proper prenatal, postpartum, lactation and miscarriage care, they said. The letter argues that ICE’s own regulations do not require pregnant, postpartum or nursing immigrants to be detained and detainment should only occur if the release is “prohibited by law or exceptional circumstances exist.” “By detaining vulnerable women in appalling conditions while pregnant, you are subjecting both the pregnant individual and the unborn child to significant risks and possible death,” according to the letter. “We urge the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and ICE to follow its own rules and regulations on detention of pregnant women and demand their humane treatment.” Lawmakers are asking for ICE to immediately release any detained immigrants who are pregnant. They are also pushing for ICE to answer several questions, including the number of pregnant immigrants in detention; the number of births or still births that took place in detention; the number of medical incidents experienced by pregnant detainees; and how many pregnant immigrants have been shackled by ICE. Lawmakers asked ICE for a response within 45 days. ICE officials did not respond to States Newsroom’s request for comment. House lawmakers who signed the letter include: Robin Kelly of Illinois Delia Ramirez of Illinois Sydney Kamlager-Dove of California Sylvia Garcia of Texas Teresa Leger Fernández of New Mexico Joyce Beatty of Ohio Jasmine Crockett of Texas LaMonica McIver of New Jersey Emily Randall of Washington state Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick of Florida Deborah Ross of North Carolina Nikema Williams of Georgia Julie Johnson of Texas Pramila Jayapal of Washington state Norma Torres of California Melanie Stansbury of New Mexico Andrea Salinas of Oregon Lois Frankel of Florida Lucy McBath of Georgia Judy Chu of California Kelly Morrison of Minnesota Lateefah Simon of California Valerie P. Foushee of North Carolina Yvette D. Clarke of New York Gwen Moore of Wisconsin Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey Yassamin Ansari of Arizona Ro Khanna of California Becca Balint of Vermont Jahana Hayes of Connecticut Eleanor Holmes Norton of the District of Columbia André Carson of Indiana Danny K. Davis of Illinois Suzanne Bonamici of Oregon Veronica Escobar of Texas Troy A. Carter of Louisiana Laura Friedman of California Summer L. Lee of Pennsylvania Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida Rashida Tlaib of Michigan Mike Quigley of Illinois Val T. Hoyle of Oregon Janice D. Schakowsky of Illinois Glenn Ivey of Maryland Jennifer L. McClellan of Virginia Terri A. Sewell of Alabama Juan Vargas of California Jesús G. "Chuy" García of Illinois Julia Brownley of California Shri Thanedar of Michigan Angie Craig of Minnesota Nydia M. Velázquez of New York Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. of Georgia Frederica S. Wilson of Florida Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri Diana DeGette of Colorado Nanette Diaz Barragán of California Dina Titus of Nevada James P. McGovern of Massachusetts Zoe Lofgren of California Mary Gay Scanlon of Pennsylvania X Republish Post Members of Democratic caucus press ICE for answers on detainment of pregnant women by Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer November 18, 2025 Members of Democratic caucus press ICE for answers on detainment of pregnant women by Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer November 18, 2025 WASHINGTON — More than 60 members of the congressional Democratic Women’s Caucus Tuesday sent a letter to the head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raising “extreme concerns” about the treatment of pregnant immigrants in detention. “The health and safety of pregnant women should not be threatened as a result of the administration choosing not to adhere to Federal regulations,” the 61 Democratic lawmakers wrote to ICE Acting Director Todd Lyons. “That is why we urge the administration to fully comply with the existing regulations and immediately correct the violations.” They specifically cited concerns at ICE facilities in Lumpkin, Georgia; Basile, Louisiana; and Broadview, Illinois. “At the detention centers, it was reported that pregnant women were being shackled, locked in restraints, or placed in solitary confinement,” they wrote, citing American Civil Liberties Union reports. The women have also been deprived of proper prenatal, postpartum, lactation and miscarriage care, they said. The letter argues that ICE’s own regulations do not require pregnant, postpartum or nursing immigrants to be detained and detainment should only occur if the release is “prohibited by law or exceptional circumstances exist.” “By detaining vulnerable women in appalling conditions while pregnant, you are subjecting both the pregnant individual and the unborn child to significant risks and possible death,” according to the letter. “We urge the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and ICE to follow its own rules and regulations on detention of pregnant women and demand their humane treatment.” Lawmakers are asking for ICE to immediately release any detained immigrants who are pregnant. They are also pushing for ICE to answer several questions, including the number of pregnant immigrants in detention; the number of births or still births that took place in detention; the number of medical incidents experienced by pregnant detainees; and how many pregnant immigrants have been shackled by ICE. Lawmakers asked ICE for a response within 45 days. ICE officials did not respond to States Newsroom’s request for comment. House lawmakers who signed the letter include: Robin Kelly of Illinois Delia Ramirez of Illinois Sydney Kamlager-Dove of California Sylvia Garcia of Texas Teresa Leger Fernández of New Mexico Joyce Beatty of Ohio Jasmine Crockett of Texas LaMonica McIver of New Jersey Emily Randall of Washington state Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick of Florida Deborah Ross of North Carolina Nikema Williams of Georgia Julie Johnson of Texas Pramila Jayapal of Washington state Norma Torres of California Melanie Stansbury of New Mexico Andrea Salinas of Oregon Lois Frankel of Florida Lucy McBath of Georgia Judy Chu of California Kelly Morrison of Minnesota Lateefah Simon of California Valerie P. Foushee of North Carolina Yvette D. Clarke of New York Gwen Moore of Wisconsin Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey Yassamin Ansari of Arizona Ro Khanna of California Becca Balint of Vermont Jahana Hayes of Connecticut Eleanor Holmes Norton of the District of Columbia André Carson of Indiana Danny K. Davis of Illinois Suzanne Bonamici of Oregon Veronica Escobar of Texas Troy A. Carter of Louisiana Laura Friedman of California Summer L. Lee of Pennsylvania Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida Rashida Tlaib of Michigan Mike Quigley of Illinois Val T. Hoyle of Oregon Janice D. Schakowsky of Illinois Glenn Ivey of Maryland Jennifer L. McClellan of Virginia Terri A. Sewell of Alabama Juan Vargas of California Jesús G. "Chuy" García of Illinois Julia Brownley of California Shri Thanedar of Michigan Angie Craig of Minnesota Nydia M. Velázquez of New York Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. of Georgia Frederica S. Wilson of Florida Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri Diana DeGette of Colorado Nanette Diaz Barragán of California Dina Titus of Nevada James P. McGovern of Massachusetts Zoe Lofgren of California Mary Gay Scanlon of Pennsylvania Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Ariana Figueroa Ariana covers the nation's capital for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include immigration, congressional policy and legal challenges with a focus on how those policies impact the lives of immigrants and migrants coming to the U.S. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Minnesota Truth Council begins process of documenting impact of federal immigration operations by Madison McVan August 26, 2026 Independent ICE flight tracker marks 5,000th detainee flown out of MSP by Madison McVan August 19, 2026 During Operation Metro Surge, ICE arrested dozens of immigrant crime victims by Madison McVan August 7, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.