Cherry students make hefty donation to Hibbing homeless shelter after "Penny War" - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Cherry students make hefty donation to Hibbing homeless shelter after "Penny War" Liam Fellman WDIO --> Cherry students make hefty donation to Hibbing homeless shelter after "Penny War" The 10th graders pulled out the win, raising $1,400, and decided to buy a plethora of hygiene products to donate to Home on the Range, a homeless shelter in Hibbing. Cherry High School is not the largest school on the Iron Range, but their students made a big impact on the community. Their student members of Youth in Action held a fundraiser that they called a "Penny War." "It's a really cool thing because we didn't really have Youth in Action in our school. So, this is the first year that all of us joined. And so then we're all able to come and just figure out stuff that we want to do and help out," said Heidi Lindula, one of the 10th graders involved. The "Penny War" was a grade vs. grade competition that lasted two weeks, with a goal to raise the most money. The winning grade also got a fun prize at the end. "Each grade had a bucket, and dollars were positive points and pennies were positive points. Any silver coins were negative points and whoever, whichever grade got the most got to cut to the principal's tie," said Adyson Vanderhoof. The 10th graders pulled out the win, raising $1,400, and decided to buy a plethora of hygiene products to donate to Home on the Range, a homeless shelter in Hibbing. "It was crazy. I was really happy with how much participation we got, and it's good that it was going to a good cause," said Maggie McLaughlin. "It means a lot. We didn't expect to raise that much at all. We didn't know how it would do when we tried it and did really good," said TehLia Martin. Those that know Cherry well say the school is small but mighty, and based on this fundraising effort, that statement holds true. "It means a lot knowing that such a small school can make such a big impact in the grand scheme of things," said Nadia Johnson. All five girls will be juniors next year and are looking forward to raising even more money next year to help Iron Rangers. For Related Stories: Cherry Hibbing Iron Range Northern Minnesota --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed