Out of the Darkness Walk raises awareness about suicide - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Out of the Darkness Walk raises awareness about suicide By WDIO --> Out of the Darkness Walk raises awareness about suicide Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Dozens gathered at Brighton Beach for Duluth's Out of the Darkness Walk, an event to remember loved ones and raise awareness about suicide prevention. The fundraiser is part of a nationwide effort by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention to support mental health initiatives, research and awareness. The Out of the Darkness Walk returned to Duluth after a multi-year break, with the goal to raise $10,000. "The monies go to a headquarters in New York, but we keep track," said Julie Johnson, Co-chair of the Out of the Darkness Walk. "And then the money's coming back in Minnesota and then it's allocated to different programs." Johnson mentioned the goal is to have the funds out in every part of the community. "It's because a lot of people aren't going to cross the door of a clinic maybe and so just to normalize it, to have the presence everywhere, and then equip people with the training so they know how to speak of suicide in a really respectful and positive way." Thirteen teams and more than 80 participants walked a 2 to 3 mile route in memory of loved ones lost to suicide or to show support for those struggling. Tracy Kwapick walked for one of her co-workers lost to suicide. "A good friend of mine that I used to work with as a nurse. None of us really had any idea about what she was going through, and it was kind of a shock for everybody," said Kwapick. Kwapick, who works in the mental health field, shared her perspective on the need for more resources because it affects everyone. "I talk to people every day that are struggling with suicidal thoughts and sometimes they have a plan. Sometimes they don't intend and I think the resources out there just need to be a lot more." Duluth's Out of the Darkness Walk has raised just over $4,500 toward its $10,000 goal. To donate, click here . If you are someone you know are struggling with mental health or in crisis, you can call or text 988 for support. For Related Stories: Brighton Beach Duluth Suicide awareness --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed