Twin Ports shop combines collectibles and arcade games in Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Twin Ports shop combines collectibles and arcade games in Duluth By WDIO --> Joe Johnson, co-owner of a collectibles and arcade shop in Duluth, shared how the business grew from a small toy store to a larger space focused on community and fun. Johnson explained that he and his wife started with a small collectibles shop on the other side of the mall before expanding. "When we got this opportunity to open a much larger one, we were like, &#8216;Can we fill it up with action figures and everything? Can we fill it up with collectibles?' We weren't sure, so I went around and bought, and just threw caution to the wind and bought a bunch of arcade machines. And we just wanted to see if people would respond to an old-school kind of arcade experience. And they have been, it's really been a really great experience. People come in here for the games, they come in here for the toys, and it's been like a fantastic synergy for us," Johnson said. He described their approach as taking "baby steps" in business, moving from a smaller spot to a bigger one. Johnson said if the new location succeeds after a year, they hope to open a much larger arcade and toy store, possibly as separate spaces. Reflecting on his love for arcades, Johnson said, "I grew up with arcades, so it was always fun to go, you know, skip school and go to the arcade. But, growing up with the arcade, it was a really interesting community event when we were young. And what's really fun about it. It's bringing people are getting to know each other and talk to each other. It's really funny to have younger kids come in here and be like, &#8216;How do I win?' And you play until, you know, it's dopamine. You win with dopamine. You don't win prizes. You win with fun, you know? And I think the most, my favorite thing when I was younger was just hanging out with my friends. My favorite thing now is watching people adapt to it and how they are starting to enjoy just not going for a prize but just going for the fun." Johnson also expressed gratitude to the community, especially those who feel there are few places for them in Duluth. "I want to say thank you to everybody who comes out and supports us, first and foremost. It is really fantastic, too, because when you talk to these guys like the artists who are here today, and you talk to the nerd community around here, it's really, like, there's not a lot for them in Duluth. There's not a lot for them to find their little treasures in Duluth, in the Duluth area, in the Twin Ports in general. And so, it really makes me- I just really like the fact that they're coming in and supporting us. And we will keep on trying to do better for them if they keep on supporting us," Johnson said. The shop continues to welcome visitors and aims to provide a space for both collectors and arcade fans in the area. For Related Stories: Community Duluth Ethan Schurman Miller Hill Mall --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed