Minnesota regulators seek $2.4 million for construction workers in historic wage theft case &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 17:35 News Story Work & Money Minnesota regulators seek $2.4 million for construction workers in historic wage theft case The case involves numerous large developments including apartments at the Minnesota Vikings’ Eagan campus By Max Nesterak - December 19, 2023 5:35 pm A sign advertises open space for lease on the sprawling Viking Lakes development Monday, May 2, 2022 in Eagan, Minnesota. Photo by Nicole Neri/Minnesota Reformer. Minnesota labor regulators are seeking $2.4 million in back wages and damages for 25 construction workers in the largest wage theft case ever brought by the state Department of Labor and Industry. State regulators allege two subcontractors — Property Maintenance and Construction and Advantage Construction — cheated workers out of wages at 19 apartment buildings in Minnesota. Among the high-profile projects: Viking Lakes apartments in Eagan, developed by the Wilf family owners of the Minnesota Vikings at the NFL team’s headquarters. The workers at Viking Lakes, whose stories were first reported by the Reformer in 2022 , say they were paid in cash, denied overtime pay, coerced to falsify immigration documents and threatened by PMC owner Leopoldo Pimentel. The two construction subcontractors worked with some of the largest developers and general contractors in Minnesota, including Roers Companies, Doran and Dominium, highlighting the pervasiveness of wage violations in the non-union construction sector. "Wage theft hurts workers and their families, and hurts responsible employers that abide by the law," DLI Commissioner Nicole Blissenbach said in a statement. "Likewise, it is unfair for contractors to have an edge when bidding against law-abiding companies by stealing wages from workers." The Department of Labor and Industry filed the lawsuit with the Office of Administrative Hearings Tuesday, claiming $1.2 million in unpaid wages and $1.2 million in liquidated damages for the workers. In a statement, MV Ventures said DLI's "findings are disturbing in that they indicate a deliberate effort by these subcontractors to deceive both their employees and the multiple developers who led these Twin Cities projects." Advantage Construction and PMC did not immediately respond to emails seeking comment. The state has been investigating the case for more than two years since the workers’ came forward with the help of the North Central States Regional Council of Carpenters. State regulators were stymied by Pimentel, who instructed workers to lie to investigators and refused to turn over documents, according to a lawsuit filed by Attorney General Keith Ellison. Ellison’s office reached a settlement with PMC in October requiring Pimentel to turn over business records and tell all of his workers in front of an investigator from the Attorney General’s Office that they are free to cooperate with state investigators. Criminal charges could also follow. In 2019, Minnesota lawmakers passed one of the nation’s toughest wage theft laws in the country, making it a felony if the theft is in excess of $1,000, subject to up to $100,000 in fines and 20 years in prison. Burt Johnson, an attorney with the carpenters union, said DLI’s case is unprecedented both in its size and in holding both contractors — PMC and Advantage Construction, which is owned by Chris Amiot — responsible for the wage theft. “It’s a big deal,” Johnson said. “I see this as a landmark case to change the direction of the department toward a more strategic and modern approach to enforcement.” Construction projects are often completed through layers of subcontracting, which can shield larger companies from liability for labor abuses. Oftentimes even individual workers are treated as subcontractors, which means they don’t receive overtime pay, workers’ compensation insurance or inclusion in the Social Security system. Nearly a quarter of construction workers in Minnesota — about 30,000 people — are misclassified or paid off the books, according to an estimate by the Midwest Economic Policy Institute . The Wilf’s Minnesota development arm MV Ventures and other developers hired Advantage Construction, which in turn hired PMC. State regulators say both companies were joint employers of the workers: PMC operated as an extension of Advantage Construction by acting as a labor broker supplying workers for projects. Minnesota legislators passed a law earlier this year making general contractors liable for wage theft by their subcontractors. Under the new rule, general contractors would have to pay workers their unpaid wages and then could take legal action to recover it from the subcontractor who failed to pay workers all they’re owed. The new law won’t apply to the case against PMC and Advantage, which preceded the law, but Johnson said the case sends a clear warning to general contractors who hire disreputable subcontractors. “The developers and general contractors who stand to profit from the wage theft of subcontractors like Advantage and PMC should be on notice that they now also bear the liability for the wage theft of their subcontractors,” Johnson said. The carpenters’ union says they warned Vikings leaders that they expected labor abuses on the apartment project, given the checkered past of some of the subcontractors they hired, including Absolute Drywall, which had been cited by state and federal regulators for misclassification and illegally employing a 14-year-old. DLI is also investigating Absolute Drywall for wage theft on construction projects including Viking Lakes, according to workers. Allegations against Absolute Drywall go beyond wage theft. The Reformer reported in 2022 that a worker for Absolute Drywall was charged with raping a cleaning worker on the Viking Lakes project. The 19 projects where state regulators say wage theft happened: Lunds & Byerlys Penn Ave Apartments; 6228 Penn Ave S, Richfield, MN 55423 Beyond Apartments; 236 Settlers Ridge Parkway, Woodbury, MN 55129 Viking Lakes Apartment Buildings; 700 Vikings Parkway, Eagan, MN 55121 Ballantrae Apartments; 3890 Ballantrae Rd, Eagan, MN 55122 Liffey on Snelling; 308 Snelling Ave N, St. Paul, MN 55104 Havenwood of Maple Grove; 18695 73rd Ave N, Maple Grove, MN 55311 Rosemary Apartments; 4628 Rosemary Way, Hugo, MN 55038 Roseville Terrace Garages; 1760 N Fernwood St, Roseville, MN 55113 The Reserves of Arbor Lakes, Maple Grove, MN 55369 Hampton Inn; 11825 Technology Dr., Eden Prairie, MN 55344 108 Place; 4050 W 108th St, Bloomington, MN 55437 Harvestview Place; 5320 56th St NW, Rochester, MN 55901 The Legends of Blaine; 10826 Austin St NE, Blaine, MN 55449 The Winslow West St. Paul; 1631 Marthaler Ln, West St Paul, MN 55118 Annandale Care Center; 500 Park St E, Annandale, MN 55302 Okalee of Medina; 4350 Chippewa Court, Medina, MN 55357 Marshall Street Apartments; 1303 Marshall Street, Minneapolis, MN 55414 The Crossing at Big Lake Station; 115 Henry Rd, Big Lake, MN 55309 Temperance Ridge Senior Living; 410 Fox Lake Ave., Sherburn, MN 56171 *This story was updated with comment from MV Ventures. X Republish Post Minnesota regulators seek $2.4 million for construction workers in historic wage theft case by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer December 19, 2023 Minnesota regulators seek $2.4 million for construction workers in historic wage theft case by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer December 19, 2023 Minnesota labor regulators are seeking $2.4 million in back wages and damages for 25 construction workers in the largest wage theft case ever brought by the state Department of Labor and Industry. State regulators allege two subcontractors — Property Maintenance and Construction and Advantage Construction — cheated workers out of wages at 19 apartment buildings in Minnesota. Among the high-profile projects: Viking Lakes apartments in Eagan, developed by the Wilf family owners of the Minnesota Vikings at the NFL team’s headquarters. The workers at Viking Lakes, whose stories were first reported by the Reformer in 2022 , say they were paid in cash, denied overtime pay, coerced to falsify immigration documents and threatened by PMC owner Leopoldo Pimentel. The two construction subcontractors worked with some of the largest developers and general contractors in Minnesota, including Roers Companies, Doran and Dominium, highlighting the pervasiveness of wage violations in the non-union construction sector. "Wage theft hurts workers and their families, and hurts responsible employers that abide by the law," DLI Commissioner Nicole Blissenbach said in a statement. "Likewise, it is unfair for contractors to have an edge when bidding against law-abiding companies by stealing wages from workers." The Department of Labor and Industry filed the lawsuit with the Office of Administrative Hearings Tuesday, claiming $1.2 million in unpaid wages and $1.2 million in liquidated damages for the workers. In a statement, MV Ventures said DLI's "findings are disturbing in that they indicate a deliberate effort by these subcontractors to deceive both their employees and the multiple developers who led these Twin Cities projects." Advantage Construction and PMC did not immediately respond to emails seeking comment. The state has been investigating the case for more than two years since the workers’ came forward with the help of the North Central States Regional Council of Carpenters. State regulators were stymied by Pimentel, who instructed workers to lie to investigators and refused to turn over documents, according to a lawsuit filed by Attorney General Keith Ellison. Ellison’s office reached a settlement with PMC in October requiring Pimentel to turn over business records and tell all of his workers in front of an investigator from the Attorney General’s Office that they are free to cooperate with state investigators. Criminal charges could also follow. In 2019, Minnesota lawmakers passed one of the nation’s toughest wage theft laws in the country, making it a felony if the theft is in excess of $1,000, subject to up to $100,000 in fines and 20 years in prison. Burt Johnson, an attorney with the carpenters union, said DLI’s case is unprecedented both in its size and in holding both contractors — PMC and Advantage Construction, which is owned by Chris Amiot — responsible for the wage theft. “It’s a big deal,” Johnson said. “I see this as a landmark case to change the direction of the department toward a more strategic and modern approach to enforcement.” Construction projects are often completed through layers of subcontracting, which can shield larger companies from liability for labor abuses. Oftentimes even individual workers are treated as subcontractors, which means they don’t receive overtime pay, workers’ compensation insurance or inclusion in the Social Security system. Nearly a quarter of construction workers in Minnesota — about 30,000 people — are misclassified or paid off the books, according to an estimate by the Midwest Economic Policy Institute . The Wilf’s Minnesota development arm MV Ventures and other developers hired Advantage Construction, which in turn hired PMC. State regulators say both companies were joint employers of the workers: PMC operated as an extension of Advantage Construction by acting as a labor broker supplying workers for projects. Minnesota legislators passed a law earlier this year making general contractors liable for wage theft by their subcontractors. Under the new rule, general contractors would have to pay workers their unpaid wages and then could take legal action to recover it from the subcontractor who failed to pay workers all they’re owed. The new law won’t apply to the case against PMC and Advantage, which preceded the law, but Johnson said the case sends a clear warning to general contractors who hire disreputable subcontractors. “The developers and general contractors who stand to profit from the wage theft of subcontractors like Advantage and PMC should be on notice that they now also bear the liability for the wage theft of their subcontractors,” Johnson said. The carpenters’ union says they warned Vikings leaders that they expected labor abuses on the apartment project, given the checkered past of some of the subcontractors they hired, including Absolute Drywall, which had been cited by state and federal regulators for misclassification and illegally employing a 14-year-old. DLI is also investigating Absolute Drywall for wage theft on construction projects including Viking Lakes, according to workers. Allegations against Absolute Drywall go beyond wage theft. The Reformer reported in 2022 that a worker for Absolute Drywall was charged with raping a cleaning worker on the Viking Lakes project. The 19 projects where state regulators say wage theft happened: Lunds & Byerlys Penn Ave Apartments; 6228 Penn Ave S, Richfield, MN 55423 Beyond Apartments; 236 Settlers Ridge Parkway, Woodbury, MN 55129 Viking Lakes Apartment Buildings; 700 Vikings Parkway, Eagan, MN 55121 Ballantrae Apartments; 3890 Ballantrae Rd, Eagan, MN 55122 Liffey on Snelling; 308 Snelling Ave N, St. Paul, MN 55104 Havenwood of Maple Grove; 18695 73rd Ave N, Maple Grove, MN 55311 Rosemary Apartments; 4628 Rosemary Way, Hugo, MN 55038 Roseville Terrace Garages; 1760 N Fernwood St, Roseville, MN 55113 The Reserves of Arbor Lakes, Maple Grove, MN 55369 Hampton Inn; 11825 Technology Dr., Eden Prairie, MN 55344 108 Place; 4050 W 108th St, Bloomington, MN 55437 Harvestview Place; 5320 56th St NW, Rochester, MN 55901 The Legends of Blaine; 10826 Austin St NE, Blaine, MN 55449 The Winslow West St. Paul; 1631 Marthaler Ln, West St Paul, MN 55118 Annandale Care Center; 500 Park St E, Annandale, MN 55302 Okalee of Medina; 4350 Chippewa Court, Medina, MN 55357 Marshall Street Apartments; 1303 Marshall Street, Minneapolis, MN 55414 The Crossing at Big Lake Station; 115 Henry Rd, Big Lake, MN 55309 Temperance Ridge Senior Living; 410 Fox Lake Ave., Sherburn, MN 56171 *This story was updated with comment from MV Ventures. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Construction firms to pay $1.28M to workers in largest wage recovery by Minnesota labor agency by Max Nesterak April 27, 2026 Minnesota contractor charged with stealing $118,000 in wages on publicly funded project by Max Nesterak September 3, 2025 Construction worker who pleaded guilty to rape is once again a wanted fugitive by Max Nesterak August 15, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.