Rep. Pete Johnson announces run for a 2nd term for District 8A - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Rep. Pete Johnson announces run for a 2nd term for District 8A By WDIO --> Minnesota State Representative Pete Johnson (DFL–District 8A) announced he's running for re-election for a 2nd term representing central and western Duluth. Rep. Pete Johnson said he chose not to hold a traditional campaign kickoff. “I remain humbled and deeply honored to serve our district," Rep. Johnson said. "I believe this moment calls for focus, steadiness, and continued work on behalf of our neighbors." Rep. Pete Johnson also continues to serve as a firefighter for the City of Duluth . He says it keeps him connected to the needs of working families. “Serving on the front lines ensures I never lose the perspective that first led me to run for office," Rep. Johnson said. "Showing up for people when they need help and working together to solve real problems." Between his work at the Capitol and as a firefighter, Rep. Pete Johnson is also a union officer. He remains active in Minnesota’s labor movement. Rep. Johnson has supported legislation to strengthen worker protections including collective bargaining rights for a range of professions. “My values were shaped in the labor movement,” Johnson said. “When workers have a voice on the job, our communities are stronger, safer, and more resilient.” Rep. Pete Johnson also added that he's proud of recent progress on protecting workers, supporting families, and strengthening communities. He added that there's still plenty of work ahead. "I will continue to prioritize protecting our neighbors, growing the middle class, and making life more affordable for the people of Duluth," Rep. Pete Johnson said. Minnesota House District 8A covers the areas of central and western Duluth. For Related Stories: Duluth Minnesota Minnesota House of Representatives --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed