Jamey Malcomb - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Jamey Malcomb Prep sports reporter Twitter Facebook Jamey Malcomb has been a high school sports reporter for the Duluth News Tribune since October 2021. He spent the previous six years covering local government, education and sports for the Lake County News-Chronicle in Two Harbors and the Cloquet Pine Journal. You can find him in gyms, rinks and anywhere high school athletes in the Twin Ports are competing or practicing. Malcomb graduated from the George Washington University in 1999 with a bachelor's degree in history and literature and holds a master's degree in secondary English education from George Mason University. Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win The Greyhounds sophomore won his second consecutive varsity race and brings “tremendous energy” to his training, according to coach Dave Wicker. 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Mason Johnson, Grand Rapids outlast Hermantown The Thunderhawks put the Hawks "on their heels" early in the game, according to coach Mike Zagelmeyer, but he liked their response to the adversity, even if Rapids prevailed. 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Dual passions fuel Peyton Emerson in Grand Rapids’ run of success The senior is the fourth-ranked Thunderhawks’ starting center, but each summer he trades his football pads for a racing helmet. 3d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Maya Johnson, Esko volleyball ‘let loose’ in win over Cloquet The senior finished with 36 assists and 10 kills — five in the decisive set — and stays “calm under pressure,” according to coach Pete Stasiuk. 5d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Duluth East’s Mike Randolph inducted into MCHA Hall of Fame The former Greyhounds coach was inducted Friday during a Minnesota Wild game, and former Crookston coach Jon Bittner — an East graduate — received the Cliff Thompson Award. 6d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Hermantown’s Martin Sleen a ‘difference-maker’ against Cloquet The Hawks senior ran for 248 yards and three touchdowns and returned the opening kickoff 94 yards for a score in their fourth-straight win. Sep 26 &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Sam Bauers, East crack Denfeld’s ‘brick wall’ The Hunters defended their crosstown rivals with a high press, but the Greyhounds attacked with “wave after wave,” according to East coach Charlie Forsyth. Sep 24 &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Sports With ice time ‘sacred,’ DECC seeks corporate sponsorship The revenue from naming rights to the DECC Arena would pay the cost of keeping ice on the floor for youth hockey and figure skaters to use during the winter. Sep 24 &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep East girls shut out Denfeld while confronting familiar foe The Greyhounds scored two goals in the second half against the Hunters, but former assistant coach Cass Wellhouse didn’t make it easy. Sep 23 &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Prep Esko earns fifth shutout of the season in win over Two Harbors The defense has allowed just seven goals through 10 games, but it all starts with “basic defensive principles” at the start of every season, according to coach Sharon Lahti. Sep 22 &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Load More Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.