45,000 Minnesotans could lose food stamps under tax bill passed by Congress Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in HEALTH Minnesota food aid at risk: 45,000 residents may lose SNAP benefits due to federal bill The sweeping budget bill passed by Congress increases work requirements to be eligible for SNAP, eliminates eligibility for legally admitted immigrants and shifts a percentage of the cost burden to the states. by Shubhanjana Das and Mohamed Ibrahim July 1, 2025 Updated July 11, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook A bank of coolers store the food banks produce in the basement of Salem Evangelical Lutheran Church on June 27, 2024. A bill passed in Congress could cut SNAP benefits and other food aid to thousands of Minnesotans. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW A budget bill passed by Congress on Tuesday with billions in cuts to federal nutrition programs will strain the ability of Minnesota agencies and local food banks to help families in need, officials say. The massive spending package, a priority of the Trump administration, includes $186 billion in cuts to the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) over 10 years. Although the Senate version scaled back the $300 billion in cuts in the House version, the loss in funding could still affect as many as 40 million Americans, including 16 million children. The bill contains $4.5 trillion in tax cuts, including an extension of Trump’s 2017 tax breaks for the wealthiest households. Republicans included cuts to safety net programs like SNAP and Medicaid to offset the tax cuts and new spending. RELATED STORIES North Minneapolis food shelf that has been a lifeline for Ecuadoran refugees to close for now St. Paul Schools, Catholic Charities partner to fight food waste and hunger When a patient at M Health Fairview can’t afford food, Mang Vang can help The bill increases work requirements to be eligible for SNAP, eliminates eligibility for legally admitted immigrants and shifts a percentage of the cost burden to the states. House Speaker Mike Johnson argued that the changes are not cuts but efforts to reduce fraud and waste through better administration of SNAP, but Minnesota advocates like Sophia Lenarz-Coy, executive director of The Food Group, call them a “sneaky way of kicking out more people from the program.” Lenarz-Coy said SNAP is the most effective way that people are fed, and the impacts of the cuts from Republicans in Congress will have impacts “along racial lines, and [on] those who have been historically disinvested in.” The Food Group is a nonprofit food bank that provides culturally specific foods and farm-grown produce to over 200 food shelves in Minnesota. About 440,000 Minnesotans receive SNAP benefits each month. About 45,000 would be at risk of losing their benefits altogether, according to an analysis of the House version by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Michelle Ness, executive director of Prism, which runs a marketplace food shelf in Golden Valley, says SNAP — along with food shelves and meal programs — are pieces in a patchwork of resources available to those experiencing food insecurity. “SNAP allows a very dignified way for people to go to the grocery store just like anyone else and be able to get the items that they need,” Ness said. “The proposed changes in this bill are extremely restrictive for those receiving these services, and financially shifts a great deal of the burden to the state.” In the final version of the bill signed by President Trump last week, states with an error payment rate — a measurement of how accurately a state determines eligibility for benefits — of 6% or less will continue to have the federal government cover food assistance costs. But states above that threshold will now have to pay between 5% and 15% of those costs. Minnesota, which is already facing a budget deficit in coming years according to the state’s latest economic forecast , had an error rate of 8.9% in 2024, meaning if the policy had been in effect last year, the state would have been on the hook for $86 million. Should the error rate remain above 6% this year, and state officials can’t find the funds to close that gap, that will ultimately mean cuts to how many people receive benefits, said Shaneen Moore, assistant commissioner at the Minnesota Department of Children, Youth and Families. “We're going to have to determine who will be eligible for the program, so I could potentially see reductions across the board in serving children, seniors and [adults with disabilities],” she said. “We will have to make some really tough decisions on how we would move forward with our program in our state.” One in 10 Minnesotans face food insecurity, per a 2023 report on food insecurity by Feeding America. One in 13 Minnesotans depend on SNAP benefits for food assistance, and out of those, more than 62% are families with children, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . Moore said the cuts come at a tenuous time as the growing cost of groceries in recent years increase the risk of food insecurity, causing more people to apply for SNAP or use food shelves, which saw 9 million visits across the state last year. The loss of those funds will also put a massive strain on Minnesota’s food system as a whole, she said. “With the cost of living continuing to increase, we are continuing to see more people need the support of SNAP,” Moore said. “With these cuts, that just means that there's going to be additional people that will be applying for service[s], and if that service can't be maintained through SNAP, then that means there's going to be added pressure onto our food shelves and our food networks for individuals who are also experiencing similar concerns.” Correction: This story has been updated to reflect the cost of food assistance cuts to Minnesota based on the final version of the federal budget passed by the U.S. Senate on July 1. READ MORE Beyond the ER: Hospital-based legal aid helps improve long-term patient outcomes Healing with an ‘Indigenous lens’: Two Native-run clinics will expand in south Minneapolis In aftermath of Metro Surge, more Somalis reach out for mental health resources Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Donald Trump , Food insecurity , food stamps , hunger , Immigrants , SNAP Shubhanjana Das sdas@sahanjournal.com Shubhanjana Das is a reporter at Sahan Journal. She is a journalist from India and previously worked as a reporting fellow at Sahan before stepping into her current role. Before moving to the U.S., she... More by Shubhanjana Das Mohamed Ibrahim mibrahim@sahanjournal.com x Mohamed Ibrahim is the public safety reporter for Sahan Journal. Before joining Sahan, Mohamed worked for the nonprofit news site, MinnPost, covering public safety and the environment. He also worked as... More by Mohamed Ibrahim Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close