Training with the Duluth Huskies - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Training with the Duluth Huskies Kenny Johnson WDIO --> Training with the Duluth Huskies The Lift's Kenny Johnson trains with the Duluth Huskies. The Duluth Huskies put in a lot of hard work before their big games at Wade Stadium. A typical training day starts at 12:30 p.m. and goes until 10:30, with Head Coach Marcus Pointer leading the charge. "We talk about approach. You know&#8230; what is the pitch you're trying to do? What are your strengths? What are your weaknesses and just trying to give guys a better guideline of, how they can be successful with their current skill set rather than trying to retool it and recreate it in the summer," says Marcus. RELATED: Up North: Wade Stadium undergoing changes ahead of Duluth Huskies season The players come in from all parts of the country. Marcus says, "these guys come together and become a family over the summer." Click here for the the Duluth Huskies game schedule. For Related Stories: Duluth Huskies Kenny Johnson Seen on The Lift Wade Stadium --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed