Man charged after St. Louis County hit-and-run - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Man charged after St. Louis County hit-and-run By WDIO --> Randy Johnson/St. Louis County Jail An Orr man faces gross misdemeanor DWI and misdemeanor hit-and-run charges after a hit-and-run near Orr Buyck and Schlomka Roads in Portage Township on June 15, 2026, according to court documents The complaint says Randy Edward Johnson, 66, was found near his burning truck after allegedly fleeing a crash with another vehicle in Portage Township. The other driver told law enforcement her vehicle was damaged, but she and her seven-year-old son were able to get out safely, according to court documents. A passerby later reported the suspect truck had blown its tires and was stopped between Wolf Knoll Road and Orr. The criminal complaint further states that, around 4:31 p.m., a deputy with the St. Louis County Sheriff's Office found Johnson’s 1995 green Dodge Ram 1500 on fire in a driveway on Orr Buyck Road. Johnson told the deputy he was coming home from his birthday party, had been celebrating, and did not know how his truck caught fire. When asked about drinking, Johnson responded, "Enough," according to the complaint. The complaint as states that Johnson said he had several Jameson whiskeys and several beers and also smoked two bowls of marijuana. Johnson said he did not remember hitting another vehicle. Johnson provided a .282 PBT breath sample, and a blood sample was also collected. The other driver in the crash later confirmed a photo of Johnson’s truck matched the vehicle that struck her and left the scene. Johnson remains in custody pending further proceedings. For Related Stories: Northern Minnesota St. Louis County Sheriff --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed