Home boarded up at immigration shooting scene in north Minneapolis Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in IMMIGRATION Boarded up door, shattered glass remain at scene of immigration shooting in north Minneapolis The U.S. Department of Homeland Security identified Julio Cesar Sosa Celis as the man who was shot and wounded Wednesday by a federal agent after an attempted traffic stop. by Andrew Hazzard and Mohamed Ibrahim January 15, 2026 January 16, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook The front door was boarded up and an upper window was shattered at a north Minneapolis duplex where an ICE agent shot Julio Cesar Sosa Celis in the leg on Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2025. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The door to a white duplex was boarded up Thursday morning on 24th Avenue N. east of Lyndale Avenue in north Minneapolis. An upper-level window was shattered. A grey Ford Focus sedan was stuck on a snowbank on the corner of 24th Avenue North and 6th Street half a block away. A DoorDash delivery bag and a sealed, full to-go drink sat in the front seat, a child’s car seat strapped in the back. In a Thursday news release, DHS confirmed an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) shot and wounded Julio Cesar Sosa Celis Wednesday evening in the area after federal agents tried to conduct a “targeted traffic stop” on him. The agency said Sosa Celis is undocumented and came to the United States from Venezuela in 2022. Sosa Celis allegedly fled from federal officers in his car before crashing the vehicle and fleeing on foot. One officer caught up to him and tried to apprehend him, resulting in a struggle on the ground, said the news release. Christina Johnson lives near the duplex ICE surrounded Wednesday night as part of the sprawling, tense immigration activity being executed across the Twin Cities. Johnson told Sahan Journal that she’s lived in the neighborhood less than a year and didn’t know the family living there. “I just know there’s a bunch of kids,” Johnson said. Her home was inundated with chemical irritants used by ICE in an attempt to disperse protesters Wednesday night. She’s been trying to air it out, but freezing temperatures made it difficult. “It filled the whole house,” Johnson said of the chemical irritants, adding that the block didn’t quiet down until about 2 a.m. Thursday. Federal agents stand near a cloud of tear gas at a scene in north Minneapolis on Jan. 14, 2026, where a federal officer shot and wounded a man in the leg earlier that evening. Credit: Chris Juhn for Sahan Journal Family’s frantic Facebook Live video A video posted on Facebook Live by the wounded man’s family during the incident includes audio of his wife calling 911. Other family members are heard frantically describing the situation pleading for assistance over speaker phone. “Please help us, we have kids,” a man, whose identity is unclear, tells 911 dispatchers in Spanish. A woman tells the dispatcher ICE was following her husband, tried to hit his vehicle and then he fled on foot to his home. When he shut the front door, she says in the video recording of her 911 call, an agent shot him in the leg. “Right now, they are outside the house trying to enter,” the woman says. Adults in the house are heard in the background trying to calm small children and keep them away from the door. In the alley behind the family’s house, infant diapers, glass jars of baby food and a used sheet of stickers sat on the ground next to the trash can Thursday. RELATED STORIES Have you experienced or witnessed an ICE arrest, or other immigration enforcement? Let us know. After second ICE shooting in a week, Minneapolis residents raise alarm on community safety ‘The beautiful light of our family’: Renee Good’s family issues statement a week after ICE shooting The DHS statement issued Thursday said that as the ICE agent struggled with Sosa Celis Wednesday evening, Alfredo Alejandro Ajorna and Gabriel Alejandro Hernandez-Ledezma, who the agency said are undocumented immigrants from Venezuela, ran out of a nearby home and attacked the ICE agent with a shovel and a broomstick. Sosa Celis then wriggled free and joined in on the assault, according to DHS, prompting the ICE officer to fire a “defensive shot to defend his life.” Sosa Celis was hit in the leg, and though the three men ran inside and barricaded themselves in a nearby home, ICE agents eventually entered and arrested all three men. According to the DHS statement, Sosa Celis and the agent who shot him remain in the hospital. It was not clear whether Sosa Celis knew the two men who came to his defense. The car driven by a man who was pursued by federal immigration agents on Jan. 14, 2026, is stranded on snowbank. A federal officer shot and wounded the man in the leg after a struggle, according to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Feds say immigration agents have ‘immunity’ A day before the shooting, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) posted a video clip on its official X account showing White House Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller on Fox News declaring to all ICE officers that they have federal immunity when performing their duties. Miller, who is behind much of the Trump administration’s immigration policies, claimed that anyone who tries to obstruct or “lay a hand on” federal agents is committing a felony, and insinuated that the DOJ will prosecute observers and local officials they deem as obstructing ICE. “You have immunity to perform your duties, and no one — no city official, no state official, no illegal alien, no leftist agitator or domestic insurrectionist — can prevent you from fulfilling your legal obligations and duties,” Miller said in the video. “The Department of Justice has made clear that if officials cross that line into obstruction, into criminal conspiracy against the United States or against ICE officers, then they will face justice.” Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem blamed Gov. Tim Walz and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey for the struggle between the federal officer and the three men Wednesday, saying they refuse to cooperate with the thousands of federal agents deployed to Minneapolis. “They are encouraging impeding and assault against our law enforcement which is a federal crime, a felony,” Noem said in the DHS news release. “This is putting the people of Minnesota in harm’s way." In a Facebook post Wednesday night, Walz lobbed the same criticism back at the Trump administration. “What Donald Trump wants is violence in the streets,” Walz said in the post. “But Minnesota will remain an island of decency, of justice, of community, and of peace. Don’t give him what he wants.” During a late-night briefing hours after the shooting, Frey said he’s only ever encouraged peaceful protest against ICE officers, who he said are causing chaos. “Show me a single place where I have encouraged violence,” Frey told reporters. “I have said from the get-go to people in Minneapolis, ‘Do not take the bait. We are better than that.’” READ MORE St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Sponsored Content The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Governor Tim Walz , Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem , ICE , Mayor Jacob Frey , North Minneapolis ICE shooting Andrew Hazzard ahazzard@sahanjournal.com x Andrew Hazzard is a reporter with Sahan Journal who focuses on climate change and environmental justice issues. After starting his career in daily newspapers in Mississippi and North Dakota, Andrew returned... More by Andrew Hazzard Mohamed Ibrahim mibrahim@sahanjournal.com x Mohamed Ibrahim is the public safety reporter for Sahan Journal. Before joining Sahan, Mohamed worked for the nonprofit news site, MinnPost, covering public safety and the environment. He also worked as... More by Mohamed Ibrahim Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close