Downtown Minneapolis apartment shooting: Police bodycam video shows officers encounter suspect - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Downtown Minneapolis apartment shooting: Police bodycam video shows officers encounter suspect Josh Skluzacek, Renée Cooper and Richard Reeve KSTP WDIO --> Downtown Minneapolis apartment shooting: Police bodycam video shows officers encounter suspect Minneapolis police have released four video clips from officer-worn body cameras during the deadly downtown Minneapolis apartment shooting on Sept. 2nd. Minneapolis police have released four video clips from officer-worn body cameras during the deadly downtown Minneapolis apartment shooting on Sept. 2 that ended with three people dead and six people hurt. The videos released Wednesday by MPD show the moment several officers arrive on the ninth floor at Shoreline Plaza, where 35-year-old Carlton Johnson II fired at officers, fellow residents and building management. Of the four bodycam clips released, two were from officers who were injured in the shooting: Joseph Michnowski, a five-year veteran of MPD, was shot in the stomach. He was just released from the hospital earlier Wednesday. Yahye Ahmed, who has been with MPD since November 2024, was shot in the leg and released from the hospital earlier this month. Another is from Liban Ibrahim, another officer who fired his weapon. WARNING: The videos below have not been edited by 5 EYEWITNESS NEWS and contain violence and language that may be disturbing to some viewers. Viewer discretion is advised The shooting left Muse Abdi Afrah, 61, and Dale Henry Spry, 63, dead after Johnson II took an elevator up to the ninth floor of Shoreline Plaza apartment building and opened fire, Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) Superintendent Drew Evans said. The BCA continues to investigate the shooting. No other medical updates regarding the civilians injured have been shared. What they show The video clips are just the surface of what MPD likely has, as Minneapolis Interim Police Chief Bill Peterson said almost 160 officers responded to the scene. However, these clips offer the first glimpse into what officers encountered during their response, including the mysterious “haze” that MPD and the BCA referenced in the hours and days after the shooting. It’s possible a fire extinguisher shown in the videos was struck, but that’s still being investigated. The videos also show Johnson come around a corner as officers arrive on the ninth floor, surprising them as gunshots ring out. Michnowski and Ahmed can also be heard saying they’ve been hit, and other officers are heard at various points asking if they’re OK. Minneapolis Police and Minneapolis Fire also released the below reports on the shooting, although parts are heavily redacted. Fire-Reports_PublicDownload MPD-PIR_13.82_RedactedDownload Security expert breaks down video “What was your first reaction when you watched these?” we asked security expert Mike Olson. “That’s one of the worst scenarios to be in,” he told us. Olson, the co-founder and CEO of 360 Security Services and a former U.S. Secret Service agent, said the hallway put officers at a major disadvantage. He said they were moving in after shots had already been fired inside the building. “Basically, a hall, the hallways like they’re set up, which are effectively fatal funnels for anybody…” Olson said. “They’re responding in, knowing there’s already been shots fired in the building. It’s an active shooter scenario. They’re moving in to try to save additional lives,” he added. The officers were led by Michnowski when they encountered the shooter near apartment 919. A second burst of gunfire left Michnowski wounded in the stomach and Ahmed wounded in the leg. “The suspect came around from the hallway on the left, which is where apt 919 would have been and had his gun leveled at all four officers in the elevator landing area,” Olson said. A cloud of smoke then filled the area. Olson said it appeared a fire extinguisher was hit by a bullet and burst. “What it appears to be to me is that the fire extinguisher took a round and exploded, basically the dry chemical, and created a smoke cloud,” he explained. “To be honest with you, these police officers were absolute heroes,” Olson said. For Related Stories: Officer-involved Shooting shooting --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed