STARBASE in Duluth excited to host workforce development event in July - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture STARBASE in Duluth excited to host workforce development event in July By WDIO --> STARBASE excited to host first Workforce Development event A look at how STARBASE in Duluth continues to focus on building a future workforce. Summer camp season has ramped up at STARBASE Minnesota, Inc. Duluth. Another opportunity for kids to get excited about STEM. About 80 of them are attending each week, and learning about lessons like density. They also get design fins for a rocket they'll launch at the end of the week. It's about building the workforce of the future. And STARBASE is hosting their first workforce development event on Wednesday, July 15th. It's at the 148th Fighter Wing, near the STARBASE classroom area. Director Charity Johnson shared, "The hope is that this will bring us closer to community partners and industry partners, to really identify what their workforce needs are. And to be able to support those with early education STEM and hands on activities that we are doing now. And also carry forward to middle school and high school, so that students continue to have touch points with STARBASE and the STEM workforce." Register today: http://www.starbasemn.org/duluth/about-us/board-events/ STARBASE Workforce Breakfast Invite 2026 Download For Related Stories: STARBASE Minnesota Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed