Republicans seek Minnesota House majority through two legal challenges &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 10:26 News Story Election 2024 Government & Politics Republicans seek Minnesota House majority through two legal challenges By Michelle Griffith - November 27, 2024 10:26 am The Minnesota Capitol Building. Courtesy of Minnesota House Public Information Services. Republicans are contesting two general election results with legal action, hoping to tip the tied 67-67 Minnesota House in their favor. On Tuesday, House Republicans announced they intend to file a lawsuit over the election results in House District 54A, which encompasses Shakopee. Democratic-Farmer-Labor Rep. Brad Tabke is leading the race over his GOP opponent Aaron Paul by 15 votes after a recount last week. House Speaker-designate Rep. Lisa Demuth, R-Cold Spring, in a statement said there were “inconsistencies in vote reporting” and “21 missing ballots.” “House Republicans are taking action to ensure that every legal vote counts and that the election is decided by the people of District 54A without interference,” Demuth said. It’s unclear what has caused potential vote count discrepancies. There are a few potential reasons for a discrepancy, and not all of them involve the ballots being missing. For instance, an elections official may have made a mistake on a computer menu option and marked a batch of ballots as “accepted” when they meant to reject them due to signature issues or any of the other reasons a ballot can be rejected. In that case, the ballots would be tallied as “accepted” in the computer system but never actually tabulated as votes because election workers rejected them, creating the discrepancy. In a statement on Wednesday morning, Scott County Attorney Ron Hocevar said the discrepancy appears to be a result of human error. “The preliminary investigation into the 21-ballot discrepancy hasn’t been determinative thus far, and it appears likely to be the result of human error that occurred during the collection of early absentee ballots at the City of Shakopee. This unfortunate situation resulted in a level of confusion that should not have occurred,” Hocevar said. The House will be evenly split after the GOP successfully flipped three DFL seats earlier this month. House leaders are currently negotiating a power-sharing agreement, but Republicans are eager to take full control. In typically safe DFL House District 40B, which includes Roseville and Shoreview, GOP candidate Paul Wikstrom filed an election contest against DFL opponent Curtis Johnson. Earlier this month, Johnson won the race for the House seat by 30 points, but in court filings Wikstrom alleged that Johnson doesn’t live in the district. House candidates need to be a resident in the House district for which they are running for at least six months before an election. In an affidavit, Wikstrom alleged that Johnson has a Little Canada home he primarily lives in — not in the House district — and rents a Roseville studio apartment in the district to make it appear like he lives there. Johnson didn’t immediately respond to the Reformer’s request for comment about the allegations disputing his residency. Wikstrom in his affidavit stated that his campaign created an “investigative team” to monitor Johnson’s whereabouts and alleged that Johnson would regularly come and go from his Little Canada home. He detailed the measures his campaign took to determine whether Johnson lived in the Roseville apartment. Wikstrom said his team called Xcel Energy and Comcast to see if the Roseville apartment was hooked up to electricity and internet, and they were “given the impression” that the apartment didn’t have accounts set up for either. One campaign staffer went to the Roseville apartment and saw that the door “was dusty and lacked evidence of any recent activity or markings indicating dust being wiped away from use,” the affidavit states. Another campaign staffer in October went to Johnson’s Roseville apartment and took photos underneath the door, which ended about an inch above the ground, according to the affidavit. What was visible was bare and didn’t have furniture, according to the affidavit. Wikstrom said Johnson should be denied his election certificate based on the residency issue. Proving a candidate is not a resident can be difficult. The most recent residency challenge was in 2016, when Republican Rep. Bob Barrett was banned from running because he didn’t live in his district. X Republish Post Republicans seek Minnesota House majority through two legal challenges by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer November 27, 2024 Republicans seek Minnesota House majority through two legal challenges by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer November 27, 2024 Republicans are contesting two general election results with legal action, hoping to tip the tied 67-67 Minnesota House in their favor. On Tuesday, House Republicans announced they intend to file a lawsuit over the election results in House District 54A, which encompasses Shakopee. Democratic-Farmer-Labor Rep. Brad Tabke is leading the race over his GOP opponent Aaron Paul by 15 votes after a recount last week. House Speaker-designate Rep. Lisa Demuth, R-Cold Spring, in a statement said there were “inconsistencies in vote reporting” and “21 missing ballots.” “House Republicans are taking action to ensure that every legal vote counts and that the election is decided by the people of District 54A without interference,” Demuth said. It’s unclear what has caused potential vote count discrepancies. There are a few potential reasons for a discrepancy, and not all of them involve the ballots being missing. For instance, an elections official may have made a mistake on a computer menu option and marked a batch of ballots as “accepted” when they meant to reject them due to signature issues or any of the other reasons a ballot can be rejected. In that case, the ballots would be tallied as “accepted” in the computer system but never actually tabulated as votes because election workers rejected them, creating the discrepancy. In a statement on Wednesday morning, Scott County Attorney Ron Hocevar said the discrepancy appears to be a result of human error. “The preliminary investigation into the 21-ballot discrepancy hasn’t been determinative thus far, and it appears likely to be the result of human error that occurred during the collection of early absentee ballots at the City of Shakopee. This unfortunate situation resulted in a level of confusion that should not have occurred,” Hocevar said. The House will be evenly split after the GOP successfully flipped three DFL seats earlier this month. House leaders are currently negotiating a power-sharing agreement, but Republicans are eager to take full control. In typically safe DFL House District 40B, which includes Roseville and Shoreview, GOP candidate Paul Wikstrom filed an election contest against DFL opponent Curtis Johnson. Earlier this month, Johnson won the race for the House seat by 30 points, but in court filings Wikstrom alleged that Johnson doesn’t live in the district. House candidates need to be a resident in the House district for which they are running for at least six months before an election. In an affidavit, Wikstrom alleged that Johnson has a Little Canada home he primarily lives in — not in the House district — and rents a Roseville studio apartment in the district to make it appear like he lives there. Johnson didn’t immediately respond to the Reformer’s request for comment about the allegations disputing his residency. Wikstrom in his affidavit stated that his campaign created an “investigative team” to monitor Johnson’s whereabouts and alleged that Johnson would regularly come and go from his Little Canada home. He detailed the measures his campaign took to determine whether Johnson lived in the Roseville apartment. Wikstrom said his team called Xcel Energy and Comcast to see if the Roseville apartment was hooked up to electricity and internet, and they were “given the impression” that the apartment didn’t have accounts set up for either. One campaign staffer went to the Roseville apartment and saw that the door “was dusty and lacked evidence of any recent activity or markings indicating dust being wiped away from use,” the affidavit states. Another campaign staffer in October went to Johnson’s Roseville apartment and took photos underneath the door, which ended about an inch above the ground, according to the affidavit. What was visible was bare and didn’t have furniture, according to the affidavit. Wikstrom said Johnson should be denied his election certificate based on the residency issue. Proving a candidate is not a resident can be difficult. The most recent residency challenge was in 2016, when Republican Rep. Bob Barrett was banned from running because he didn’t live in his district. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Lisa Demuth beats Trump-endorsed Mike Lindell in GOP primary for Minnesota governor by Michelle Griffith August 11, 2026 Peggy Flanagan wins Democratic Senate primary in Minnesota in victory for progressive flank by Max Nesterak August 11, 2026 Klobuchar continues to far out-raise GOP candidates for Minnesota governor by Michelle Griffith June 17, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.