Frey&#039;s proposed budget looks for cost savings in the wrong places Close 🤍 Donate Newsletters Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu 2026 Election State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Washington Environment Drinking Water Sports Photography Fact Briefs Opinion Open dropdown menu Community Voices Cityscape Sack's View Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Artscape MNopedia Health Open dropdown menu Community Health Mental Health & Addiction Documenters Open dropdown menu Documenters About Twin Cities Documenters Newsletters Open dropdown menu Daily Newsletter MinnPost Week Review Capitol Conversations Newsletter Signup Headwinds: MinnPost's Energy Newsletter MinnPost Greater Minnesota Newsletter Cityscape Newsletter Subscribe to D.C. Memo Artscape Newsletter MinnPost Timberwolves Newsletter Careers Festival About Us Open dropdown menu Inside MinnPost Instagram Bluesky Facebook Close Skip to content Instagram Bluesky Facebook MinnPost Nonprofit, independent journalism. Supported by readers. 🤍 Donate Newsletters Sign In 🤍 Donate Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu 2026 Election State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Washington Environment Drinking Water Sports Photography Fact Briefs Opinion Open dropdown menu Community Voices Cityscape Sack's View Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Artscape MNopedia Health Open dropdown menu Community Health Mental Health & Addiction Documenters Open dropdown menu Documenters About Twin Cities Documenters Newsletters Open dropdown menu Daily Newsletter MinnPost Week Review Capitol Conversations Newsletter Signup Headwinds: MinnPost's Energy Newsletter MinnPost Greater Minnesota Newsletter Cityscape Newsletter Subscribe to D.C. Memo Artscape Newsletter MinnPost Timberwolves Newsletter Careers Festival About Us Open dropdown menu Inside MinnPost Open Search Search for: Search Topics State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Elections Washington Mental Health &#038; Addiction Photography Sports Documenters Fact Briefs Posted in Community Voices Frey's proposed budget looks for cost savings in the wrong places The proposed defunding of the Partnership Engagement Fund would hurt Minneapolis neighborhood associations that depend on what has been a reliable source of city support. by Alexander Kurt Johnson 09/01/2026 09/01/2026 Share this: Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Nonprofit Minneapolis neighborhood associations provided grocery and rental support to impacted families during Operation Metro Surge. Credit: Ellen Schmidt/MinnPost/CatchLight Local/Report for America Cityscape | Twin Cities urban geographer Bill Lindeke weighs in on city life, transportation, planning and more in his column delivered to your inbox weekly. Sign up On April 28, Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey was honored by Refugees International with the McCall-Pierpaoli Humanitarian Award for the city’s response to the federal occupation during Operation Metro Surge. In his acceptance speech , Frey insisted that “this recognition belongs to the people of Minneapolis who stood up for the rights, dignity and safety of our neighbors.” When referring to the people of Minneapolis, there is no doubt that a portion of the praise was meant for those involved in providing rent and food assistance to neighbors who could not leave their homes for fear of abduction by the federal government. Nonprofit neighborhood associations across Minneapolis were able to organize within a month to support the immediate needs of the community, providing grocery and rental support to impacted families. Whereas bureaucratic hurdles meant the city’s Emergency Rental Assistance Fund wasn’t approved in full until March 26 — or 115 days after the first federal boots hit Minneapolis soil — many community organizations, such as the Lowry Hill East Neighborhood Association (LHENA), mobilized alongside community partners within weeks to fundraise and distribute over $350,000 in rental support to keep families in their homes. Related: In occupied Minneapolis, neighborhood barricades rightly slow injustice The level of support provided, in many cases, went far beyond what could be expected of community organizations that rely on the city for the majority of their funding, with the median association-specific city budget being no more than $34,000. Fast-forward barely four months from the mayor's speech, and you could not fault many Minneapolis residents for feeling that his praise was disingenuous. I say this because many of the proposed cuts contained in the 2027-2028 budget recommendation the mayor outlined on Aug. 12 would impact city departments and programs that benefit citizens, both directly and indirectly. Staff and budget cuts to the Civil Rights Department, Health Department, and Racial Equity, Inclusion and Belonging Department rightfully ought to occupy headlines, as those bodies are integral to Minneapolis’ ability to be a safe, welcoming, and just city for all. But I want to focus on a proposed cut that is more likely to go unnoticed, yet nonetheless stands to impact a core tool in the tool box of many of the same community-based organizations across the city that stepped up during Operation Metro Surge — the proposed defunding of the Partnership Engagement Fund (PEF). The $500,000 made available each year by PEF is set to be reduced to $0 under the proposed budget. PEF has been a reliable pool of additional funding for many neighborhood associations; this funding has gone toward powering truly grassroots community initiatives. PEF monies are what allowed LHENA to help fund the beginning years of Porchfest , an annual free community showcase of local bands in the Wedge neighborhood that draws thousands to the neighborhood. Funds from PEF also supported a student-led project at the Ella Baker Global Studies and Humanities School that saw pupils fight existing plans for a playground renovation in favor of a more accessible design that every child could play on. Walk by the school today, and you can see a standing testament to what sort of projects PEF can help neighborhood associations and their communities achieve. Related: With surge abated, what’s next for Twin Cities’ mutual aid efforts? Now is not the time to reduce the variety of funding and support available to neighborhood associations. If anything, the city should take this opportunity to invest in neighborhood associations in a way that moves work, and expenses, off the city’s plate. This is the exact approach that Minneapolis took in the 1990s, when urban flight and increasing suburbanization forced a personnel and cash-strapped Minneapolis to outsource budgeting and community development work to nonprofit neighborhood associations through a program called the Neighborhood Revitalization Program (NRP). The NRP model worked . When compared to St. Paul, following the implementation of the NRP, Minneapolis neighborhoods performed better across metrics such as income, rent and vacancy rate. In hindsight, the NRP proved pathetic when it came to equitable engagement and equal benefit with regards to outcomes, disproportionately benefiting white, middle-class homeowners. However, who is to say that a similar model, with a more noble and equitable goal than stabilizing property values, wouldn’t work? In this case the bathwater may be gone, but the baby can still be rescued. The budgeting process will always require sacrifices, personal and financial. The same sort of sacrifices that countless Minneapolitans across the city made during Operation Metro Surge. Many neighborhood associations forewent the usual administrative fee when managing emergency rental support funds to make sure that hundreds of thousands in rent money was able to go straight to families in need. Obviously this wasn’t ideal from a budgetary perspective, but it was the right thing to do. When deciding on a final budget, the city should take a page from the people of Minneapolis’ book and do the right thing by protecting funds like PEF that go toward meaningful, grassroots community work at the neighborhood level. Alexander Kurt Johnson is the executive director of the Lowry Hill East Neighborhood Association in Minneapolis. This Voices commentary reflects his personal opinions and not necessarily those of the organization. Want to add your voice? If you’re interested in joining the discussion, consider writing a Community Voices commentary or counterpoint. (For more information about Community Voices, see our Submission Guidelines .) Support the news you rely on You rely on MinnPost to report on the things that matter to you. And we depend on readers like you to help fund our work. Will you make a gift to support our work and keep articles like this one paywall-free? Donate now Related Tagged: Opinion Your guide to the policy shaping Minnesota. Keep up with the politics, culture and stories shaping Minnesota with MinnPost's daily newsletter. Sign up Most Read State Government Walz sales tax proposal hits consumers, while sparing business-to-business transactions by Matthew Blake Cityscape Three things to know about St. Paul’s latest development spat, and why neighborhood organizers are right this time by Bill Lindeke Metro It’s still unclear if trash will be picked up in St. Paul starting April 1 by Winter Keefer Environment Trump’s critical minerals order may boost efforts to mine copper, nickel and cobalt in Minnesota by Ana Radelat From Other Nonprofit Media Crowded field emerges to replace former state Sen. Justin Eichorn by Chelsey Perkins, KAXE/KBXE MinnPost is your source for local news. Help keep our independent journalism paywall-free with a donation today! Give Now Thanks to our major sponsors is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit newsroom About Us Newsletters Careers Advertise Membership Help Contact Submit a Tip Code of Ethics Terms of Use Privacy Policy Instagram Bluesky Facebook RSS Feed P.O. Box 18438 | Minneapolis, MN 55418 | 612.455.6950 &copy; 2026 MinnPost Powered by Newspack MinnPost Privacy Policy Instagram Bluesky Facebook New and exciting things are happening in Minnesota. Support MinnPost’s independent journalism during our Fall Member Drive with a donation today! Give now Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We&#039;ll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of MinnPost directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Daily Newsletter MinnPost&#039;s top stories delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday, with a week review on Friday that ties our stories together. Events & member benefits Be the first to know about opportunities around MinnPost membership & events. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link