U.S. House Speaker Johnson decries antisemitism, urges protection of Uyghurs in China &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 10:59 News Story DC Bureau U.S. House Speaker Johnson decries antisemitism, urges protection of Uyghurs in China By Jennifer Shutt - January 31, 2024 10:59 am U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, gives a speech at the International Religious Freedom summit in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, Jan. 31, 2024. Photo by Jennifer Shutt/States Newsroom. WASHINGTON — U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson rejected antisemitism and called on the Biden administration to fully enforce the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act during brief remarks to the International Religious Freedom summit on Wednesday. The Louisiana Republican also argued that God, not the government, provides American citizens with their rights and that those ideas are reflected in the First Amendment as well as other documents like the Declaration of Independence. “These ideals come from the self-evident truth that men and women are created by God and that it is God, not the government, that gives us our rights,” Johnson said. Anytime a government removes its citizens’ ability to freely practice their religion, Johnson said, “it moves beyond its sphere of jurisdiction and it becomes tyrannical.” “When religious freedom is taken away from people, political freedom soon follows,” Johnson said. “We know that that is the lesson of history.” Johnson then rebuked governments around the world that he said don’t allow religious freedom or where people have experienced violence for practicing as they wish, including China, Cuba, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Nigeria and North Korea. “Uyghur Muslims are suffering under the Chinese Communist Party’s genocidal campaign of forced sterilization, forced detention and reeducation,” Johnson said. “Millions of Uyghurs have been detained in these camps, where they’re kept in cramped cells, and they’re tortured and brainwashed.” Johnson said that the Biden administration must “fully enforce the letter and the spirit” of the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, a law that passed both chambers of Congress on voice votes and was signed by President Joe Biden in 2021. The law required the Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force to work toward ensuring “that goods mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part with forced labor in the People’s Republic of China, including by Uyghurs, Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, Tibetans, and members of other persecuted groups in the People’s Republic of China, and especially in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, are not imported into the United States.” Speaking at the summit, Johnson said people should “use all of our resources to prevent American involvement in Uyghur genocide,” noting that the United States has sought to prevent genocides since the Holocaust. “Sadly, the same antisemitism that led to the Holocaust is now being spread through new tools and once again rearing its ugly head,” Johnson said. “Since Hamas slaughtered thousands of Israeli citizens on October 7, we’ve seen a frightening, seemingly coordinated rise of antisemitism including here on our own shores, and it’s been alarming.” X Republish Post U.S. House Speaker Johnson decries antisemitism, urges protection of Uyghurs in China by Jennifer Shutt, Minnesota Reformer January 31, 2024 U.S. House Speaker Johnson decries antisemitism, urges protection of Uyghurs in China by Jennifer Shutt, Minnesota Reformer January 31, 2024 WASHINGTON — U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson rejected antisemitism and called on the Biden administration to fully enforce the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act during brief remarks to the International Religious Freedom summit on Wednesday. The Louisiana Republican also argued that God, not the government, provides American citizens with their rights and that those ideas are reflected in the First Amendment as well as other documents like the Declaration of Independence. “These ideals come from the self-evident truth that men and women are created by God and that it is God, not the government, that gives us our rights,” Johnson said. Anytime a government removes its citizens’ ability to freely practice their religion, Johnson said, “it moves beyond its sphere of jurisdiction and it becomes tyrannical.” “When religious freedom is taken away from people, political freedom soon follows,” Johnson said. “We know that that is the lesson of history.” Johnson then rebuked governments around the world that he said don’t allow religious freedom or where people have experienced violence for practicing as they wish, including China, Cuba, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Nigeria and North Korea. “Uyghur Muslims are suffering under the Chinese Communist Party’s genocidal campaign of forced sterilization, forced detention and reeducation,” Johnson said. “Millions of Uyghurs have been detained in these camps, where they’re kept in cramped cells, and they’re tortured and brainwashed.” Johnson said that the Biden administration must “fully enforce the letter and the spirit” of the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, a law that passed both chambers of Congress on voice votes and was signed by President Joe Biden in 2021. The law required the Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force to work toward ensuring “that goods mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part with forced labor in the People’s Republic of China, including by Uyghurs, Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, Tibetans, and members of other persecuted groups in the People’s Republic of China, and especially in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, are not imported into the United States.” Speaking at the summit, Johnson said people should “use all of our resources to prevent American involvement in Uyghur genocide,” noting that the United States has sought to prevent genocides since the Holocaust. “Sadly, the same antisemitism that led to the Holocaust is now being spread through new tools and once again rearing its ugly head,” Johnson said. “Since Hamas slaughtered thousands of Israeli citizens on October 7, we’ve seen a frightening, seemingly coordinated rise of antisemitism including here on our own shores, and it’s been alarming.” Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jennifer Shutt Jennifer covers the nation’s capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include congressional policy, politics and legal challenges with a focus on health care, unemployment, housing and aid to families. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom One year since Oct. 7 attack on Israel, U.S. leaders honor victims and protesters march by Ashley Murray October 7, 2024 U.S. House Judiciary files suit to obtain audio tapes of Biden special counsel interview by Ariana Figueroa July 1, 2024 U.S. House GOP to file suit over Biden audio tapes, as ‘inherent contempt’ vote looms by Jennifer Shutt June 26, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.