‘Casablanca’ meets Prince in Fringe Fest satire set during Metro Surge Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ARTS & CULTURE ‘Casablanca’ meets Prince in Fringe Fest satire set during Operation Metro Surge Plus: Black music, a community-built poem and an Asian street food festival by Myah Goff August 7, 2026 August 6, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Minnesota-based actor and playwright Derek "Duck" Washington at Lake Hiawatha. He is part of several 2026 Minnesota Fringe shows, including "Casa Bde Maka Ska," "The Importance of Living," "Ember," and "Stories From the Trauma Dump" Credit: Reid Rejsa When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The Minnesota Fringe Festival returns this weekend, transforming stages across Minneapolis into a playground for theater artists pushing the boundaries of performance. With more than 80 productions spanning comedy, musicals, drama and experimental theater, we’re highlighting two standout shows worth adding to your itinerary. Looking for more weekend plans? Catch emerging Black artists at Rootstock, contribute to an interactive poetry exhibit at Resource and explore a Pan-Asian street food festival inspired by Thailand’s beachside markets. Minnesota-based actor and playwright Derek "Duck" Washington is part of several 2026 Minnesota Fringe shows, including "Casa Bde Maka Ska," "The Importance of Living," "Ember," and "Stories From the Trauma Dump" Credit: Adam Iverson The soundtrack of an occupation One of the most timely shows in this year’s Minnesota Fringe is “ Casa Bde Maka Ska ,” a satirical reimagining of the 1942 film “Casablanca” through the lens of Operation Metro Surge. The original film follows refugees seeking passage out of Morocco, while this new adaptation explores themes of displacement and belonging in Minneapolis. “In ‘Casablanca,’ everyone’s trying to escape and get away,” said co-writer Derek “Duck” Washington . “I feel like a lot of the drive here in the Twin Cities is that people don’t want to leave their homes. They want to stay. That’s what makes this area special.” The adaptation also pays homage to Prince’s legacy in Minneapolis. Rather than serenading “ As Time Goes By ,” the show’s piano player performs Prince tracks like “ When Doves Cry .” “We’re kind of painting the insurgency as a little bit of buffoonery,” Washington said. “Hopefully, it’ll give people a little bit of a laugh while also shining light on some of the issues and some of the awesomeness of the residents of Minnesota.” Sketch comics try to make Satan laugh What happens when a sketch comedy troupe dies and goes to hell? For Maxxeapolis , the answer is simple: convince Satan to let them perform at the Minnesota Fringe. Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up In “ Maxxeapolis Goes to Hell ,” the nine-member comedy collective reimagines the underworld as a waiting room. Comedian Linc Owens plays a self-deprecating and self-referential version of Satan and the troupe must win him over before they can make it back to the stage. “We end up in hell because we’re comedians and comedians go to hell,” said group member, writer and performer Eponine Diatta . “We’re trying to appeal to Satan to let us out of hell because we have to perform at the Fringe show. These sketches either irritate or satisfy Satan until we are able to gain our freedom.” Rather than stringing together standalone sketches, the nine-member group built a cohesive narrative around exaggerated caricatures of themselves. Co-founder Greg Baker, for instance, plays a hyper-practical manager who treats being damned to hell like an inconvenient corporate retreat. Meanwhile, Justin Johnson serves as the show’s musical backbone — whom Diatta compares to Orpheus in the 2006 musical “Hadestown” — singing about how the troupe got trapped and how they might escape. “The group’s mission is always to give people a break,” Diatta said. “Comedy is this great gift that we have to be able to remove the stakes from these otherwise serious situations and feel some relief and feel the endorphins of having a good belly laugh.” Date: Aug 6 through Aug. 16 Time: Various times for different shows. Location: Various venues across Minneapolis Cost: $25 per show. $90 for a five-show pass. $150 for a 10-show pass. Buy one, get one free is available on select shows. Look for performances marked “BFF,” put at least two tickets in your cart, and enter code “BFF” at checkout. Learn more here . For more information: Visit minnesotafringe.org Gr3g the Poet and his backing band at the Hook &#038; Ladder on Sept. 18, 2025. Credit: James E-T Black music in full bloom One stage isn’t enough to hold Minnesota’s growing Black arts landscape. On Saturday, Icehouse’s indoor stage and outdoor courtyard will be filled with R&B, soul, hip-hop, rap, jazz, funk, Afrobeats and reggae for the Rootstock Music Festival . Catch courtyard sets from Poetic Roots , Gr3g the Poet , Mayyadaa , Jackson Hurst , and Jandeltha Rae , then head inside for performances by Juice Lord , Essjay the Afrocentric Ratchet , Lewiee Blaze , Maya Marchelle and more. Date: Saturday, Aug. 8 Time: 4 p.m. Location: Icehouse, 2528 Nicollet Ave., Minneapolis Cost: $26.77 For more information: Visit icehouse.turntabletickets.com/calendar A collective web of memory “ Counteralgorithmic Poetics ,” an interactive poetry exhibit, is opening for one weekend only. Step inside the installation at Resource , receive a prompt and share a memory. As you write, you’ll encounter words left behind by previous participants to weave into your own response. Instead of scrolling through a feed shaped by an algorithm, visitors can build something together. Minneapolis-based artist Dana Chiueh draws on her background in AI engineering to explore the boundaries between human connection and automated systems. Date: Saturday, Aug. 8 Time: 6 p.m. Location: Resource, 512 E. 24th St., Minneapolis Cost: Free For more information: Visit instagram.com/resource_mpls Lion dancing at the Asian Street Food Night Market in Maplewood, June 2026. A Pan-Asian feast New this year, the Asian Street Food Night Market is introducing a dining area inspired by the tropical, beachside coast of Pattaya, Thailand. Explore more than 70 street food vendors, a beer garden, a K-pop dance party, lion dancers, live performances and a car show. If you stop by this weekend, be sure to say hello to the Sahan Journal team, who will be tabling on Saturday and Sunday. Date: Friday, Aug. 7 through Sunday, Aug. 9 Time: 4 to 11 p.m. on Friday. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday. 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Sunday. Location: Pan Asian Center south parking lot, 3001 White Bear Ave., Maplewood Cost: Free For more information: Visit facebook.com/AsianStreetFoodNightMarket READ MORE Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Looking forward, looking back: Mizna’s Arab Film Fest digs into cultural archives New indie film ‘QUEEN(S)’ brings undocumented immigrant story to Minnesota for its world premiere Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Myah Goff myahgoffreports@gmail.com Myah Goff is a freelance journalist and photographer, exploring the intersection of art and culture. With a journalism degree from the University of Minnesota and a previous internship at Sahan Journal,... More by Myah Goff Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Discover, know, go! Minnesota resources, events, and ways to get involved delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for Sahan Pathfinder , our community-first newsletter. Sign up! This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close