Republicans win MN House majority, for now, after judge rules candidate ineligible &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 12:30 News Story Election 2024 Government & Politics Republicans win MN House majority, for now, after judge rules candidate ineligible By Michelle Griffith - December 20, 2024 12:30 pm The Capitol grounds covered in snow on Dec. 19, 2024, following the first significant winter storm of the season. Photo by Michele Jokinen/House Public Information Services. District Court Judge Leonardo Castro on Friday ruled that Democrat Curtis Johnson did not meet the residency requirement to serve in the Minnesota House, enjoining him from receiving an election certificate and saying the seat should be filled through a special election. Castro, in a blistering opinion, said Johnson did not meet the requirement that he live in the district he intended to serve for six months prior to the November election. “The reasons for the (residency) mandate are obvious and axiomatic to our representative form of government,” Castro wrote in his opinion. “Obtaining a lease and changing your voter registration does not satisfy this requirement; meaningful physical presence is required to show genuine intent to reside in the district. The people of 40B deserve no less.” Johnson, who did not immediately respond to the Reformer’s request for comment, could appeal the decision to the Minnesota Supreme Court. For now, House Republicans will have a one seat majority, 67-66. House District 40B, which Johnson won by 30 points last month, is a safe DFL seat, and will likely wind up in DFL hands after a special election, but that won’t take place for some time. Republicans will likely capitalize on their temporary majority before a special election in 40B to elect a House speaker and committee chairs. Rep. Lisa Demuth, R-Cold Spring, who led Republicans to their new majority, is the likely speaker of the House, though a Supreme Court reversal of Castro’s ruling is still possible. There’s very little precedent for a change of speakership in the middle of a legislative session, but because 68 votes would be required to vacate the speakership, Demuth would likely remain speaker even after a special election pulls the chamber into a tie, so long as she can keep Republicans in line. Democrats, however, disputed that Republicans will have a majority once session starts. "The House DFL disagrees that House Republicans have a majority because 68 members are required to conduct House business. Republicans have 67 members," a House DFL spokesperson said in a statement. Demuth praised the decision: “With the overwhelming evidence we heard during the trial that the Democrat candidate in Roseville never lived in the district, I applaud the court’s decision to grant the election contest and look forward to ensuring that a valid candidate represents District 40B during the upcoming legislative session,” she said in a statement. “This is a clear reminder that laws matter, and integrity in the election process is non-negotiable.” Johnson’s GOP challenger, Paul Wikstrom, filed an election contest after his campaign conducted surveillance of Johnson and alleged he didn’t live in the district. Wikstrom alleged that Johnson has a Little Canada home he primarily lives in — not in the House district — and rents a Roseville studio apartment in the district to make it appear like he lives there. Wikstrom in his election contest affidavit stated that his campaign created an “investigative team” to monitor Johnson’s whereabouts and alleged that Johnson would regularly come and go from his Little Canada home. He detailed the measures his campaign took to determine whether Johnson lived in the Roseville apartment. Wikstrom said his team called Xcel Energy and Comcast to see if the Roseville apartment was hooked up to electricity and internet, and they were “given the impression” that the apartment didn’t have accounts set up for either. One campaign staffer went to the Roseville apartment and saw that the door “was dusty and lacked evidence of any recent activity or markings indicating dust being wiped away from use,” the affidavit states. X Republish Post Republicans win MN House majority, for now, after judge rules candidate ineligible by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer December 20, 2024 Republicans win MN House majority, for now, after judge rules candidate ineligible by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer December 20, 2024 District Court Judge Leonardo Castro on Friday ruled that Democrat Curtis Johnson did not meet the residency requirement to serve in the Minnesota House, enjoining him from receiving an election certificate and saying the seat should be filled through a special election. Castro, in a blistering opinion, said Johnson did not meet the requirement that he live in the district he intended to serve for six months prior to the November election. “The reasons for the (residency) mandate are obvious and axiomatic to our representative form of government,” Castro wrote in his opinion. “Obtaining a lease and changing your voter registration does not satisfy this requirement; meaningful physical presence is required to show genuine intent to reside in the district. The people of 40B deserve no less.” Johnson, who did not immediately respond to the Reformer’s request for comment, could appeal the decision to the Minnesota Supreme Court. For now, House Republicans will have a one seat majority, 67-66. House District 40B, which Johnson won by 30 points last month, is a safe DFL seat, and will likely wind up in DFL hands after a special election, but that won’t take place for some time. Republicans will likely capitalize on their temporary majority before a special election in 40B to elect a House speaker and committee chairs. Rep. Lisa Demuth, R-Cold Spring, who led Republicans to their new majority, is the likely speaker of the House, though a Supreme Court reversal of Castro’s ruling is still possible. There’s very little precedent for a change of speakership in the middle of a legislative session, but because 68 votes would be required to vacate the speakership, Demuth would likely remain speaker even after a special election pulls the chamber into a tie, so long as she can keep Republicans in line. Democrats, however, disputed that Republicans will have a majority once session starts. "The House DFL disagrees that House Republicans have a majority because 68 members are required to conduct House business. Republicans have 67 members," a House DFL spokesperson said in a statement. Demuth praised the decision: “With the overwhelming evidence we heard during the trial that the Democrat candidate in Roseville never lived in the district, I applaud the court’s decision to grant the election contest and look forward to ensuring that a valid candidate represents District 40B during the upcoming legislative session,” she said in a statement. “This is a clear reminder that laws matter, and integrity in the election process is non-negotiable.” Johnson’s GOP challenger, Paul Wikstrom, filed an election contest after his campaign conducted surveillance of Johnson and alleged he didn’t live in the district. Wikstrom alleged that Johnson has a Little Canada home he primarily lives in — not in the House district — and rents a Roseville studio apartment in the district to make it appear like he lives there. Wikstrom in his election contest affidavit stated that his campaign created an “investigative team” to monitor Johnson’s whereabouts and alleged that Johnson would regularly come and go from his Little Canada home. He detailed the measures his campaign took to determine whether Johnson lived in the Roseville apartment. Wikstrom said his team called Xcel Energy and Comcast to see if the Roseville apartment was hooked up to electricity and internet, and they were “given the impression” that the apartment didn’t have accounts set up for either. One campaign staffer went to the Roseville apartment and saw that the door “was dusty and lacked evidence of any recent activity or markings indicating dust being wiped away from use,” the affidavit states. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Billionaire Glen Taylor’s right-hand man is a political player supporting Lisa Demuth for governor by Michelle Griffith September 17, 2026 At the Minnesota State Fair, underdog candidates find an even playing field by Max Nesterak September 4, 2026 Demuth plans to cut $1 billion from Minnesota’s budget, refrains from denouncing tariffs by Michelle Griffith August 25, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.