St. Louis County Board approves $564M budget and 12.4% levy increase - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture St. Louis County Board approves $564M budget and 12.4% levy increase By WDIO --> St. Louis County held a public meeting to discuss the 2025 budget (WDIO). The St. Louis County board approved a $564 million budget for 2026, with a 6-1 vote in which Commissioner Ashley Grimm voted no. The budget covers services for more than 200,000 residents across 7,000 square miles, including public safety, roads, public health, and general government. It also addresses inflation, state and federal costs shifts, employee wages, and rising healthcare costs. About a third of the budget comes from the property tax levy, which was set at $202,669,428, a 12.8% increase from 2025. Some commissioners said the levy increase is not sustainable and committed to reviewing the county's role in issues like childcare and housing in the coming year. "Everywhere you go, people have an opinion on the levy, which is fine," said Commissioner Paul McDonald of Ely. "That's why we are in public service to listen to people and come up with a decision that puts us in the best spot to move St. Louis County forward. We have to find a path, working with both our state partners and our federal partners to move to a place that's going to be better for each and every one of us." The board also approved a $15.4 million contract with Johnson Wilson Construction to renovate HVAC, mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems at the St. Louis County Depot. A 35-year lease with Eden Renewables was authorized for a 15-megawatt solar installation on the county's former landfill in Hibbing, expected to bring in more than $1.5 million in revenue over the lease term. The meeting was the board's last of the year, with the next scheduled for January 6, 2026. For Related Stories: St. Louis County Board --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed