Cuts to SNAP benefits have ripple effect on immigrant farmers Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in BUSINESS & WORK Cuts to SNAP benefits have ripple effect on Minnesota’s immigrant farmers Many used SNAP benefits to purchase produce at local farmers markets, supporting an ecosystem of diverse farmers and foods. by Shubhanjana Das August 12, 2025 August 11, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Mai Yang rearranges her produce at the Minneapolis Farmer's Market on July 26, 2025. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up For more than three decades at the Minneapolis Farmers Market, Mai Yang, 66, has sold everything from blueberries and tomatoes, to food prized in Hmong cuisine including bitter melon, Malabar spinach and sweet potato leaves. Her family-run farm, based in Hastings, spans three generations, with her daughter Stacy and granddaughter joining her at the market on the weekends. Stacy Yang jokes that she doesn’t have a green thumb, but says farming is at the center of her mother’s life. RELATED STORIES Minnesota families face tougher choices with cuts to food assistance programs Minnesota food aid at risk: 45,000 residents may lose SNAP benefits due to federal bill Minnesota immigrant farmers face bigger challenge getting foothold after USDA change “My mother takes a lot of pride in her work, even when it comes to presenting the vegetables a certain way for the farmers market,” said Stacy. “We're trying to keep the business as long as possible because this is her only source of income.” Cuts in July to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) funds, however, mean that Mai Yang might have to rethink what she plants next year. SNAP customers, many of whom seek produce specific to Hmong cuisine, contribute 25 to 30% of their income every month. The cuts to SNAP, which allows 440,000 Minnesotans to access food of their choice at grocery stores and farmers markets, were part of President Donald Trump’s exhaustive budget bill. A second program, cut this spring, is also affecting small family farms in Minnesota. In March, USDA cancelled $18 million in funding for essential food assistance programs: Local Food Purchase Assistance (LFPA) and Local Food for Schools (LFS) that are used by food banks and schools to buy fresh produce from local farmers. Cutting off a ‘lifeline’ to immigrant farmers Minnesota is home to over 65,000 farms that are responsible for the fresh produce consumed in the state. Of those, less than 1% are BIPOC-run farms (as of 2022). That number, even though small, is significant to the state’s food system. “One of the coolest things about our local food movement is how intertwined it is with the hard work and the success of our immigrants and BIPOC community,” said Ella Daniels, executive director of Mill City Farmers Market. Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up Funwi Tita is a Cameroonian farmer who immigrated to Minnesota 23 years ago, but he never stopped craving home food. So, he started farming to be able to “eat vegetables and the diet that I had growing up,” he said. Funwi Tita, originally from Cameroon, poses in his field near Otsego on July 25, 2025. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal What started as a backyard kitchen garden to feed his family and friends grew into a 15-acre farm called Better Greens divided between Otsego and Monticello. Tita grows African vegetables like njama njama or garden huckleberry, okra, cassava, pumpkin and taro leaves, among others, that can’t be found in grocery stores. “The farm grew slowly but surely because of demand from our African brothers and sisters. It transports them back home, to their grandma's house, in a village somewhere in Africa.” Tita, who partners with The Good Acre, Second Harvest Heartland and The Food Group to sell his produce, said the fund cuts came as a “shock wave” to his business and to farms of similar scale run by immigrant African farmers. “Programs like LFPA are the lifeline for a business like Better Greens,” said Tita, adding that his commercial market access has been through organizations that depend on these funds. “It's what has actually propelled us to where we are right now.” Theresa McCormick, executive director of the nonprofit food hub The Good Acre, which works with 150 local farm partners to connect them with food banks, health organizations, and schools said, “The impact of programs like LFPA will be felt the deepest in our immigrant communities, our new farmers, our Black, Indigenous and farmers of color who are a backbone in growing food that we eat in this state.” She added that without the funds from LFPA, food banks will have less buying power to purchase from local farmers, straining an already complex food economy. Food banks like The Food Group and Second Harvest Heartland are two of The Good Acre’s biggest buyers of fresh produce. Ethan Neal, director of partner operations at Second Harvest Heartland says that programs like LFS and and LFPA were started to make sure that farmers had the demand and the resources to harvest their product instead of it being a financial decision to till it under. “Now we're starting to see farmers looking at the product being like, ‘I don't even have a government market, so it actually is going to be beneficial for me to till this under.’ That's when you start to get into trouble,” he said. The Food Group’s executive director, Sophia Lenarz-Coy, sees these cuts as yet another hurdle for people to get into farming. “There are so many ways that the odds are stacked against success for farmers. The policy changes that are coming fast and furious are making what was already really tough way harder,” she said. That’s exactly how Tita feels. “It is challenging for the African immigrant farmers to be able to navigate this system,” he said, referring to literacy, cultural and language barriers. “Now, we’re competing in the same pool of grants and are disadvantaged right at the door.” Tita had planned to expand his business, but now, he says he will have to proceed with more caution. “There was a lot of excitement and optimism. Now, we can't really project where things are going to fall.” Low-income customers lose purchasing power In 2024, the 100 vendors who sell at the Minneapolis Farmers Market, received a revenue of $235,000 from SNAP, which includes the farmers market tokens and produce bucks. “Compared to data from the 2024 season, transaction numbers are slightly lower among customers for May and June 2025,” said Sophia Zimmerman, marketing manager and food access coordinator at the market. “This could be due to lower amounts distributed in benefits, a lack of some seniors who used to spend their EBT cash at the market, etc.,” she added, referring to the new changes to SNAP eligibility. The mid-season SNAP cuts mean that people will lose some of their purchasing power from incentive programs that help stretch every dollar at these markets. Stacy Yang helps to sell produce at the Minneapolis Farmer's Market on July 26, 2025. Her mother, Mai, has been a vendor at the market for over 30 years. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal One of these programs, GusNIP , a federally funded grant program that helps low-income consumers, especially SNAP participants, boost their purchasing power for fresh fruits and vegetables, is due to be cancelled at the end of August, leaving a state-wide gap of $140,000 to $150,000, Mill City Farmers Market’s Daniels pointed out. “SNAP customers are spending about $300,000 annually at farmers markets. Now, they'll have less to spend, which is going to have a direct impact on our farmers,” said Daniels. A moment to localize the food system Friendly Vang-Johnson, who runs Friendly Hmong Farms and is the government affairs director at the Minnesota Farmers Market Association, was brought up in a Hmong farming family. A lot of the work Vang-Johnson does is in the intersection of food sovereignty and racial justice for farmers of color. Vang-Johnson believes that even though these fund cuts are going to manifest in ways that will unsettle the food system, sees it as an opportunity to localize the food supply even further, change who people buy food from, and organize mutual aid for the infrastructure farmers need to keep growing. “What the administration really wants is to control us by controlling our food sources; I don't think it even cares if small scale farmers exist. But, it is the farmer growing that local produce that is going to preserve our ability to have any sort of food sovereignty,” said Vang-Johnson. READ MORE East Side businesses say summer of roadwork has slowed recovery after Metro Surge ‘This is not over’: As Lake Street cash mobs wrap up, immigrant businesses still face headwinds Minnesota State Fair food review: Chinese Sausage and Cheese Poppers are a must-try, but skip the Soul Roll Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Black farmers , farmers , Farmers Markets , Food Aid , Minneapoli , Minnesota , SNAP Shubhanjana Das sdas@sahanjournal.com Shubhanjana Das is a reporter at Sahan Journal. She is a journalist from India and previously worked as a reporting fellow at Sahan before stepping into her current role. Before moving to the U.S., she... More by Shubhanjana Das Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close