Border security bill fails to lift U.S. House conservatives’ block of foreign aid package &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 18:50 News Story DC Bureau Border security bill fails to lift U.S. House conservatives’ block of foreign aid package By Ariana Figueroa - April 18, 2024 6:50 pm A Texas National Guardsman observes as Border Patrol agents pat down migrants who have surrendered themselves for processing at Gate 42, some after waiting near the border wall for days, May 10, 2023. Congress is currently debating a new border security package. Photo by Corrie Boudreaux for Source NM. WASHINGTON — The border security bill U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson offered to conservatives to win support for a major foreign aid package had not broken a blockade of the package by hard-right members late Thursday. The border security bill is nearly identical to a border security bill, H.R. 2, the House passed last year on a party-line vote that would reinstate Trump-era immigration policies. Including a border security bill was Johnson’s attempt to appease hard-right Republicans and win support for the foreign aid package many on his right flank oppose. But as the U.S. House Rules Committee gathered for hours over two separate meetings Wednesday evening and Thursday to discuss the border security bill and the three separate bills totaling about $95 billion to aid Ukraine, Israel and the Indo-Pacific region, the panel had not adopted a rule that would allow the bills to receive floor consideration. The new border security bill includes most provisions from H.R. 2 and would add more than $9 billion in grant programs for border states. It does not include a mandate for employers to verify a worker’s immigration status and employment eligibility. Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, planned for votes Saturday on the foreign aid bills. He also detailed a plan to move the border security bill under a separate rule. That approach would allow the Senate to clear the bipartisan foreign aid bills without acting on the more controversial border bill. House Republicans’ first border security bill was not successful in the Senate – and the new version likely would not pass the Democrat-controlled chamber either. ‘Pointless’ The Rules Committee called an emergency hearing on the border security bill late Wednesday, but did not have the Republican votes to adopt a rule to advance the measure to the floor. Democrats on the committee declined to ask the witnesses, Reps. Tom McClintock of California and Jerry Nadler of New York, any questions. The top Rules Committee Democrat, James McGovern, called the meeting “pointless.” “We are here to rehash an old bill,” McGovern said, referring to H.R. 2. “We’re here because you’re trying to figure whether you get some votes on the Ukraine package.” The chair of the Rules Committee, Michael Burgess of Texas, said the bill was needed because it “reiterates our commitment to implementing strong border security measures.” McGovern argued that several Republicans already publicly said they would not support advancing the bill to the House floor, meaning it would die in the committee. Those Republicans, who are all members of the hard-right Freedom Caucus, are Reps. Thomas Massie of Kentucky, Chip Roy of Texas and Ralph Norman of South Carolina. Massie is also backing an effort by Georgia’s Marjorie Taylor Greene to oust Johnson from his role as speaker. “I think if the three of you vote ‘no’ on this rule, we’re done,” McGovern said to them. “This is a waste of time.” Roy also said Wednesday night’s hearing “was a sideshow that wasn’t going to result in anything.” Burgess said that he planned to vote for the rule and encouraged Republicans to support it. He then quickly adjourned the meeting and the members didn’t return Wednesday for a vote on the rule for the bill. The Rules Committee remained deadlocked at another hearing Thursday. Norman said at Thursday’s hearing he would vote against the foreign aid package because it isn’t tied to border security. “Our only ask was to include a border bill in this rule,” Norman said. “Not a standalone, which the Senate will sit on, as they have (with) H.R. 2.” Roy also expressed his frustration Thursday that Congress has not passed any laws relating to immigration reform. “It remains true today that we have not passed and got the president to sign into law anything that would meaningfully change or alter what is happening at the border,” he said. House Republicans earlier this year tanked a bipartisan border deal in the Senate at the behest of the presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald J. Trump. The Rules Committee recessed Thursday without adopting a rule again. X Republish Post Border security bill fails to lift U.S. House conservatives’ block of foreign aid package by Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer April 18, 2024 Border security bill fails to lift U.S. House conservatives’ block of foreign aid package by Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer April 18, 2024 WASHINGTON — The border security bill U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson offered to conservatives to win support for a major foreign aid package had not broken a blockade of the package by hard-right members late Thursday. The border security bill is nearly identical to a border security bill, H.R. 2, the House passed last year on a party-line vote that would reinstate Trump-era immigration policies. Including a border security bill was Johnson’s attempt to appease hard-right Republicans and win support for the foreign aid package many on his right flank oppose. But as the U.S. House Rules Committee gathered for hours over two separate meetings Wednesday evening and Thursday to discuss the border security bill and the three separate bills totaling about $95 billion to aid Ukraine, Israel and the Indo-Pacific region, the panel had not adopted a rule that would allow the bills to receive floor consideration. The new border security bill includes most provisions from H.R. 2 and would add more than $9 billion in grant programs for border states. It does not include a mandate for employers to verify a worker’s immigration status and employment eligibility. Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, planned for votes Saturday on the foreign aid bills. He also detailed a plan to move the border security bill under a separate rule. That approach would allow the Senate to clear the bipartisan foreign aid bills without acting on the more controversial border bill. House Republicans’ first border security bill was not successful in the Senate – and the new version likely would not pass the Democrat-controlled chamber either. ‘Pointless’ The Rules Committee called an emergency hearing on the border security bill late Wednesday, but did not have the Republican votes to adopt a rule to advance the measure to the floor. Democrats on the committee declined to ask the witnesses, Reps. Tom McClintock of California and Jerry Nadler of New York, any questions. The top Rules Committee Democrat, James McGovern, called the meeting “pointless.” “We are here to rehash an old bill,” McGovern said, referring to H.R. 2. “We’re here because you’re trying to figure whether you get some votes on the Ukraine package.” The chair of the Rules Committee, Michael Burgess of Texas, said the bill was needed because it “reiterates our commitment to implementing strong border security measures.” McGovern argued that several Republicans already publicly said they would not support advancing the bill to the House floor, meaning it would die in the committee. Those Republicans, who are all members of the hard-right Freedom Caucus, are Reps. Thomas Massie of Kentucky, Chip Roy of Texas and Ralph Norman of South Carolina. Massie is also backing an effort by Georgia’s Marjorie Taylor Greene to oust Johnson from his role as speaker. “I think if the three of you vote ‘no’ on this rule, we’re done,” McGovern said to them. “This is a waste of time.” Roy also said Wednesday night’s hearing “was a sideshow that wasn’t going to result in anything.” Burgess said that he planned to vote for the rule and encouraged Republicans to support it. He then quickly adjourned the meeting and the members didn’t return Wednesday for a vote on the rule for the bill. The Rules Committee remained deadlocked at another hearing Thursday. Norman said at Thursday’s hearing he would vote against the foreign aid package because it isn’t tied to border security. “Our only ask was to include a border bill in this rule,” Norman said. “Not a standalone, which the Senate will sit on, as they have (with) H.R. 2.” Roy also expressed his frustration Thursday that Congress has not passed any laws relating to immigration reform. “It remains true today that we have not passed and got the president to sign into law anything that would meaningfully change or alter what is happening at the border,” he said. House Republicans earlier this year tanked a bipartisan border deal in the Senate at the behest of the presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald J. Trump. The Rules Committee recessed Thursday without adopting a rule again. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Ariana Figueroa Ariana covers the nation's capital for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include immigration, congressional policy and legal challenges with a focus on how those policies impact the lives of immigrants and migrants coming to the U.S. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom North Carolina US Sen. Thom Tillis announces retirement after drawing Trump wrath by Jennifer Shutt June 29, 2025 Utah’s Mike Lee to make new attempt to sell off public lands in US Senate mega-bill by Jacob Fischler June 24, 2025 Will control of Congress shift? The results hinge on a handful of states and races by Jennifer Shutt November 1, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.