Minneapolis City Council reconsiders Roof Depot plan in East Phillips neighborhood Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ENVIRONMENT Minneapolis City Council members decided Thursday to reconsider the controversial development of a site in the East Phillips neighborhood. Environmental activists and many locals want the Roof Depot site to be developed into an urban farm with affordable housing. Last fall, the City Council approved the city’s plan to turn the site into a water utility yard—potentially increasing traffic and pollution in a diverse neighborhood that already experiences environmental health problems. by Sheila Mulrooney Eldred March 10, 2022 March 11, 2022 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook The Roof Depot site in south Minneapolis includes a vacant warehouse that the nonprofit East Phillips Institute wants to turn into an urban farm and community hub. Credit: Ben Hovland | Sahan Journal Sahan Journal’s climate coverage is supported by a generous gift from Morgan Family Foundation. You can become a sponsor, too . Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The Minneapolis City Council voted Thursday morning to pause a much-debated construction project in the East Phillips neighborhood. The city wanted to use the former Roof Depot site near E. 28th St. and Longfellow Avenue to expand its water distribution facility, but neighborhood and environmental groups opposed the plan. In an 8-5 vote, City Council members decided to suspend the project and consider alternative proposals. The East Phillips Neighborhood Institute (EPNI) will have until June to present the council a new plan. The group has been touting a multi-use complex that would include an urban farm, affordable housing, and a job training site. Council members Elliott Payne, Robin Wonsley Worlobah, Jason Chavez, Aisha Chughtai, Emily Koski, Jeremiah Ellison, Andrea Jenkins, and Andrew Johnson voted to pause the project. Council members LaTrisha Vetaw, Linea Palmisano, Lisa Goodman, Jamal Osman, and Michael Rainville voted against it. The debate has showcased the tensions between the city, which has pledged to make environmental improvements in the area, and activists, who want the city to make good on its promises. The previous City Council approved a compromised project in October that included both the water yard and three acres set aside for community groups, but incoming Council Member Chavez proposed in February that the Council vote to suspend the project. Before Thursday’s vote, Chavez and environmental and community activists spoke to Sahan Journal about their concerns with the initial plans for the site. “Basically it’s a project that people of the Ninth Ward – and across the city – have been opposed to for a long time,” Chavez said. “It would create more pollution in East Phillips. So the first step is to pause or suspend the expansion project that isn’t welcome in the ward. After that, next steps for an urban farm, housing, fresh food and employment can be taken.” Suspending the project means that another vote will be held to determine whether to award the project to EPNI, the nonprofit leading the urban farm project. And, that group will likely have to find $14 million to pay the city for the money it has already invested in the project. Minneapolis purchased the Roof Depot site in 2016. The sought-after plot of land sits in a city-designated Southside Green Zone, an area disproportionately affected by environmental problems that the city says it will focus on improving health and environmental consciousness in. It is also contaminated with arsenic from a plant that produced arsenic-based pesticides there between 1938 and 1963. Neighborhood groups and environmental activists say that designation means the city needs to take special consideration in planning how the land should be used next. The sought-after plot of land sits in a city-designated Southside Green Zone, an area disproportionately affected by environmental problems. Credit: Ben Hovland | Sahan Journal Additional diesel trucks, traffic and a parking lot would likely contribute to increased air pollution in the area, although it’s unclear exactly how much a water facility would negatively impact the local environment. A Green Zone designation should ensure that there is a higher threshold for how land is used, said Jay Eidsness, a staff attorney for the Minnesota Center for Environmental Advocacy. “What we find troubling is that the city doesn’t seem to be concerned with environmental justice. Just because it might not be THAT bad doesn’t make it OK.” jay eidsness, staff attorney for the minnesota center for environmental advocacy “It’s not necessarily the volume of pollution we find troubling,” Eidsness said. “What we find troubling is that the city doesn’t seem to be concerned with environmental justice. Just because it might not be THAT bad doesn’t make it OK.” By designating the area a Green Zone, the city has recognized historical decisions that resulted in disproportionate environmental impacts in certain neighborhoods, Eidsness said. About 70 percent of the neighborhood’s residents identify as people of color, and about 30 percent are foreign-born; both numbers are about twice that of the city’s average. East Phillips also has more pollution from particulate matter than 90 percent of the metropolitan area, according to a racial impact analysis presented to the City Council in September by Minneapolis sustainability director Kim Havey. But there seems to be a lack of political will to change the situation, Eidsness said before Thursday’s vote. “It’s a classic environmental justice problem in East Phillips, and it doesn’t seem like the city really wants to do anything about it,” he said. related stories Jay Eidsness: The new Minneapolis City Council should vote again on a greener future for East Phillips. Tee McClenty fights for climate justice for all as the new executive director of MN350. Minneapolis City Council votes for a compromise on redeveloping the Roof Depot site. Neighborhood groups reject the offer. Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: East Phillips , Minneapolis City Council , roof depot Sheila Mulrooney Eldred seldred@sahanjournal.com facebook x Sheila Mulrooney Eldred writes stories about health equity for Sahan Journal. As a freelance journalist, she has written for The New York Times, the Washington Post, FiveThirtyEight, NPR, STAT News and... More by Sheila Mulrooney Eldred Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close