Pete Johnson moving on to November in Minnesota House District 8A race - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Pete Johnson moving on to November in Minnesota House District 8A race Darren Danielson WDIO --> Meet the Candidates: Jordon Johnson and Pete Johnson Unofficial results in Tuesday's Minnesota primary election show voters choosing Pete Johnson between the two Democratic challengers wanting to fill the Minnesota District 8A's post after four-term Representative Democrat Liz Olson announced she'd step down last month. Both Dr. Jordon Johnson and Firefighter Pete Johnson told WDIO News their intention to run is rooted deeply in community issues. "I've been a firefighter here in Duluth for about 19 years," Pete Johnson explained, " Realizing over the years that many of the things that we get called to are rooted in something else. So for us, that could be an education issue, it could be a housing issue, access to healthcare, or stable, good job availability, things like that. And those things end up, if those needs aren't addressed, those end up manifesting and someone calling 911 looking for somebody to help them." We asked both candidates what they thought they brought to the seat that was unique to them. For Dr. Johnson, it included experiencing some of the issues he cares about growing up. "So for me I have a lot of lived experience of being housing insecurity and economic insecurity as a child and also this kind of working in community and being immersed in community particularly with our indigenous black communities of color and lifting up voices for the community because I recognize the importance that our community voices are critical and policies impact everyone's lives." 8A Republican candidate Mark McGrew is running unopposed. For Related Stories: Minnesota Politics Politics Primary Election --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed