K-pop and Bollywood meet modern dance in newest Red Eye show Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ARTS & CULTURE K-pop and Bollywood meet modern dance in Red Eye’s fluid ‘Vastnessess’ Twin Cities arts events this weekend include a play on reproductive rights and a playful glass show with Japanese and pop culture references. by Myah Goff March 1, 2024 March 1, 2024 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook From left, Emily Gastineau, Judith H Shuǐ Xiān, Pramila Vasudevan, Jennifer Monson, and Sam Johnson at Red Eye Theater, 2024. Credit: Valerie Oliveiro When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The Twin Cities art scene this weekend offers a multicultural dance performance exploring grief and identity, a solo exhibit showcasing futuristic-inspired glass art, and a four-woman play addressing reproductive rights. From left, Pramila Vasudevan, Judith H Shuǐ Xiān, and Sam Johnson at Red Eye Theater, 2024. Credit: Valerie Oliveiro Dance performance embraces fluid identities in motion Red Eye Theater , an artist-run organization supporting Twin Cities performers, is presenting “Vastnessess,” a dance performance choreographed by Valerie Oliveiro , the theater’s co-artistic director. As a commercial photographer, Oliveiro’s work ranged from portraiture and landscape to documenting productions. Their journey into dance began when Oliveiro was invited to document the works of a choreographer. As they documented the behind-the-scenes activities, Oliveiro found themselves participating in the warm-ups, exercise, and dancing scores. “I really started to understand the kind of expansive space or the possibilities of my body,” Oliveiro said. “It’s really powerful once you start to understand it and move, and feel like you have agency.” After relocating to Minnesota, Oliveiro immersed themselves in the local dance community, attending classes and workshops. The transition from photography to dance represented a journey of self-discovery and self-acceptance as Oliveiro navigated their identity. “I was a lighting designer and a technician and a stage manager, and I toured and worked in a lot of rooms with a lot of creative people,” they said. “But dance offered me a different kind of possibility—a way to integrate my various interests and experience into a single, cohesive practice.” related sTORIES Theater Mu’s horror-comedy with a twist uses forgotten massacre to excavate repressed rage Minnesota African American Heritage Museum honors Black culinary trailblazers Sami, U.S. artists navigate Indigenous histories in Minneapolis shows Oliverio’s choreography in “Vastnessess” embodies their belief in dance as a medium for embracing diverse experiences and identities. The performance weaves together various styles, from Trisha Brown-inspired modern dance to elements of K-pop and Bollywood, while exploring themes of grief, fluidity of identity, and the dancers’ devotion to their craft. “In ‘Vastnessess,’ there’s a lot around my experience of grief as part of the process,” Oliveiro said. “I have a really good relationship with my family; however, my parents do not accept that I am gay. My mom just passed and my dad and I, we just never talked about it.” For Oliveiro, “Vastnessess” transcends mere performance—it serves as a celebration of human connection and the vast possibilities of understanding and relating to the world. “Dance is such a container to hold all the spaces of who you are at one point in time,” they said. “It really can hold all of it, and it's not just like a technical move of your arm moving across space or something like that.” Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up The performance features choreographers Sam Johnson, Judith H Shuǐ Xiān, and Pramila Vasudevan. Oliveiro emphasizes the importance of creating a space where the dancers can bring their whole selves into the performance. “There’s a lot of binary culture around us, you know, this or that, and it's kind of manipulative. I just feel like it's possible to find common ground,” they said. “It’s always a negotiation of what it feels like and what it looks like. We are always dancing together, and it's about intention.” Date: Friday, March 1 to Saturday, March 9 Time: 7:30 p.m. Location: Red Eye Theater, 2213 Snelling Ave., Minneapolis Cost: $25. Buy tickets here . For more information: Visit redeyetheater.org . From left, actors Carolyn Pool, Elena Yazzie, Kate Beahen, and Julia Valen will perform in "Fetal" at Frank Theatre through March 10, 2024. Credit: Tony Nelson Play tackles reproductive rights head-on Frank Theatre , a platform for productions exploring social, political, and cultural issues, is bringing “Fetal” by playwright Trista Baldwin to Minneapolis. Set in a Texas clinic on the day of the Dobbs decision, which overturned Roe v. Wade, “Fetal” examines women’s experiences amidst evolving reproductive rights in the United States. The play follows the intersecting journeys of four women who meet in the waiting room of an abortion provider. Among them are a queer graduate student, a corporate finance worker with an 8-year-old daughter, a teenager whose parents hold anti-abortion beliefs, and a clinic worker. Together, they navigate the personal and complex decisions concerning their bodies and futures. Date: Friday, March 1 to Sunday, March 10 Time: 7:30 p.m. Thursday and Friday. 2 p.m. on Sunday. Location: Frank Theatre Studio, 2637 27th Ave. S., Minneapolis Cost: $30 for general admission. $25 for students and seniors. For more information: Visit franktheatre.org . Michael Lizama's "Mushroom Geisha" is on display at Foci Center for Glass Arts in Minneapolis through May 16. Credit: Provided by Micheal Lizama Glass art inspired by pop culture, marine life Foci Minnesota Center for Glass Arts is hosting “Wonderlands: Occupying the Space between Whimsy and Mystery,” a solo exhibit showcasing 15 glass works by Michael Lizama . Lizama’s artistic journey, influenced by printmaking, graphic design, and biomedical illustration, has led him to create stained glass windows featuring futuristic and extraterrestrial characters. His work reflects his childhood memories of growing up in Hawaii during the 1960s, as well as his passion for nature, marine life, comics, pop culture, and Japanese aesthetics. Using glass recycled from cathedral windows, Lizama’s work explores an imaginative world where childhood memories and diverse interests converge. Foci will also host an artist talk with Japanese glass artist Sayaka Suzuki Friday, March 8 at 6 p.m.. Following the discussion, Suzuki will demonstrate a glass art technique, using colored glass powders and fruit. Date: Friday, March 1 to May 16. Time: 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Sunday. Location: Foci Minnesota Center for Glass Arts, 2213 Snelling Ave., Minneapolis Cost: Free For more information: Visit mnglassart.org . Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Dance , Minneapolis , Theater , Weekend arts guide Myah Goff myahgoffreports@gmail.com Myah Goff is a freelance journalist and photographer, exploring the intersection of art and culture. With a journalism degree from the University of Minnesota and a previous internship at Sahan Journal,... More by Myah Goff Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Discover, know, go! Minnesota resources, events, and ways to get involved delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for Sahan Pathfinder , our community-first newsletter. Sign up! This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close