U.S. Rep. Massie joins move to oust Speaker Johnson, who vows: ‘I am not resigning’ &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 13:22 News Story DC Bureau Government & Politics U.S. Rep. Massie joins move to oust Speaker Johnson, who vows: ‘I am not resigning’ By Jennifer Shutt - April 16, 2024 1:22 pm Kentucky Republican U.S. Rep Thomas Massie speaks with reporters inside the U.S. Capitol on Tuesday, April 16, 2024. Photo by Jennifer Shutt/States Newsroom. WASHINGTON — Republican Rep. Thomas Massie of Kentucky called on U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson to resign during a closed-door meeting of GOP lawmakers on Tuesday, throwing more uncertainty into that chamber just months before the November elections. Massie told reporters after the meeting and just before a Johnson press conference he believed the votes exist to remove Johnson as speaker when a vote is called. He didn’t say when that would happen or who he thinks could secure the votes needed to become speaker. “The motion will get called,” Massie said, referring to a floor vote on Johnson. “And then he’s going to lose more votes than Kevin McCarthy. And I have told him this in private, like weeks ago.” Johnson, a Louisiana Republican who was unanimously elected to the leadership post in October after a small group of GOP lawmakers ousted former Speaker McCarthy, rejected Massie’s call to quit, as did several Republicans. “I am not resigning. And it is, in my view, an absurd notion that someone would bring a vacate motion,” Johnson said “We’re simply here trying to do our job.” Removing Johnson from the leadership position less than six months into his tenure comes shortly after the House passed two government funding packages on broadly bipartisan votes in March and just as the House prepares to vote on emergency aid for Ukraine, Israel and Taiwan later this week. Israel is engaged in a war with Hamas in the Gaza Strip and was attacked by Iran over the weekend, while Ukraine continues to defend itself from a Russian invasion. Johnson, speaking at a press conference during which he only took one question, said removing him as speaker would throw a wrench into a chamber that needs “steady hands at the wheel” to address domestic and global issues. “Look, I regard myself as a wartime speaker. I mean, in a literal sense,” Johnson said. “I knew that when I took the gavel. I didn’t anticipate that this would be an easy path.” Johnson repeated comments from former GOP House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who he said posted on his social media that “this is the hardest challenge that’s faced a speaker probably in the history of the country.” “He said, arguably, maybe comparable to the Civil War, but maybe worse,” Johnson said, referring to the period between 1861 and 1865 when Southern states seceded from the United States in an attempt to preserve slavery of Black people. The death toll from the war is estimated at 620,000. Johnson then spoke about the narrow margin that GOP leaders have in the House, which currently holds 218 Republicans and 213 Democrats. “A single-vote margin at a difficult time when the nation is terribly divided,” Johnson said. “The way we get through that is we show unity and we explain how we have answers to all these great challenges.” Former President Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee for president this fall, is on trial in a New York state criminal courtroom facing charges of falsifying business records. Trump would oppose President Joe Biden this fall in what has been so far a bitter campaign. Johnson appeared with Trump at Florida’s Mar-a-Lago on Friday and appeared to get the backing of the former president, possibly insulating him from efforts to remove him as speaker. Greene motion to vacate Georgia Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene filed a motion to vacate the speaker post in March, just before the House left on a two-week break. Unlike the motion to vacate that Florida GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz filed against McCarthy last fall, this one was not intended to be “privileged,” meaning that it didn’t force a vote within two days. Greene has not said when she may push for a floor vote. Massie said that Johnson’s actions as speaker, including advancing bipartisan bills that have been able to move through the Democratically controlled Senate and garner Biden’s signature, are key reasons he wants to remove him from power. Massie said that Johnson should publicly announce that he would resign once the conference decides on a successor, or that he should announce a future date for his resignation. That would allow the House GOP Conference to have a smooth transition without the weeks of stalemate and drama that marked the ousting of McCarthy. Border security demands from GOP South Carolina GOP Rep. Ralph Norman said following the House Republican meeting that he respects Massie, but disagrees with his actions. “The last thing this country needs is to throw a speaker out, even though I disagree with what he’s done,” Norman said. “I wouldn’t put the country through that, so I’m against that.” Numerous House Republican lawmakers in the meeting, Norman said, made it clear to Johnson that something must be done to address border security. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves said following the meeting he doesn’t believe a floor vote on the motion to vacate Johnson from the speaker’s office is imminent. “I don’t think that the threat is really real at this point just because you don’t have an alternative,” Graves said. “You have a loosely affiliated coalition government at this point. You’re not going to get a majority of votes for any new person. And for that reason, I don’t think they’re going to go through with it at this point.” House Appropriations Chairman Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said he’s “not too worried about Speaker Johnson,” despite Massie’s calls for resignation. X Republish Post U.S. Rep. Massie joins move to oust Speaker Johnson, who vows: ‘I am not resigning’ by Jennifer Shutt, Minnesota Reformer April 16, 2024 U.S. Rep. Massie joins move to oust Speaker Johnson, who vows: ‘I am not resigning’ by Jennifer Shutt, Minnesota Reformer April 16, 2024 WASHINGTON — Republican Rep. Thomas Massie of Kentucky called on U.S. House Speaker Mike Johnson to resign during a closed-door meeting of GOP lawmakers on Tuesday, throwing more uncertainty into that chamber just months before the November elections. Massie told reporters after the meeting and just before a Johnson press conference he believed the votes exist to remove Johnson as speaker when a vote is called. He didn’t say when that would happen or who he thinks could secure the votes needed to become speaker. “The motion will get called,” Massie said, referring to a floor vote on Johnson. “And then he’s going to lose more votes than Kevin McCarthy. And I have told him this in private, like weeks ago.” Johnson, a Louisiana Republican who was unanimously elected to the leadership post in October after a small group of GOP lawmakers ousted former Speaker McCarthy, rejected Massie’s call to quit, as did several Republicans. “I am not resigning. And it is, in my view, an absurd notion that someone would bring a vacate motion,” Johnson said “We’re simply here trying to do our job.” Removing Johnson from the leadership position less than six months into his tenure comes shortly after the House passed two government funding packages on broadly bipartisan votes in March and just as the House prepares to vote on emergency aid for Ukraine, Israel and Taiwan later this week. Israel is engaged in a war with Hamas in the Gaza Strip and was attacked by Iran over the weekend, while Ukraine continues to defend itself from a Russian invasion. Johnson, speaking at a press conference during which he only took one question, said removing him as speaker would throw a wrench into a chamber that needs “steady hands at the wheel” to address domestic and global issues. “Look, I regard myself as a wartime speaker. I mean, in a literal sense,” Johnson said. “I knew that when I took the gavel. I didn’t anticipate that this would be an easy path.” Johnson repeated comments from former GOP House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who he said posted on his social media that “this is the hardest challenge that’s faced a speaker probably in the history of the country.” “He said, arguably, maybe comparable to the Civil War, but maybe worse,” Johnson said, referring to the period between 1861 and 1865 when Southern states seceded from the United States in an attempt to preserve slavery of Black people. The death toll from the war is estimated at 620,000. Johnson then spoke about the narrow margin that GOP leaders have in the House, which currently holds 218 Republicans and 213 Democrats. “A single-vote margin at a difficult time when the nation is terribly divided,” Johnson said. “The way we get through that is we show unity and we explain how we have answers to all these great challenges.” Former President Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee for president this fall, is on trial in a New York state criminal courtroom facing charges of falsifying business records. Trump would oppose President Joe Biden this fall in what has been so far a bitter campaign. Johnson appeared with Trump at Florida’s Mar-a-Lago on Friday and appeared to get the backing of the former president, possibly insulating him from efforts to remove him as speaker. Greene motion to vacate Georgia Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene filed a motion to vacate the speaker post in March, just before the House left on a two-week break. Unlike the motion to vacate that Florida GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz filed against McCarthy last fall, this one was not intended to be “privileged,” meaning that it didn’t force a vote within two days. Greene has not said when she may push for a floor vote. Massie said that Johnson’s actions as speaker, including advancing bipartisan bills that have been able to move through the Democratically controlled Senate and garner Biden’s signature, are key reasons he wants to remove him from power. Massie said that Johnson should publicly announce that he would resign once the conference decides on a successor, or that he should announce a future date for his resignation. That would allow the House GOP Conference to have a smooth transition without the weeks of stalemate and drama that marked the ousting of McCarthy. Border security demands from GOP South Carolina GOP Rep. Ralph Norman said following the House Republican meeting that he respects Massie, but disagrees with his actions. “The last thing this country needs is to throw a speaker out, even though I disagree with what he’s done,” Norman said. “I wouldn’t put the country through that, so I’m against that.” Numerous House Republican lawmakers in the meeting, Norman said, made it clear to Johnson that something must be done to address border security. Louisiana Republican Rep. Garret Graves said following the meeting he doesn’t believe a floor vote on the motion to vacate Johnson from the speaker’s office is imminent. “I don’t think that the threat is really real at this point just because you don’t have an alternative,” Graves said. “You have a loosely affiliated coalition government at this point. You’re not going to get a majority of votes for any new person. And for that reason, I don’t think they’re going to go through with it at this point.” House Appropriations Chairman Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said he’s “not too worried about Speaker Johnson,” despite Massie’s calls for resignation. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jennifer Shutt Jennifer covers the nation’s capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include congressional policy, politics and legal challenges with a focus on health care, unemployment, housing and aid to families. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Government shutdown looms Oct. 1 as Congress struggles with stopgap spending plan by Jennifer Shutt September 16, 2025 North Carolina US Sen. Thom Tillis announces retirement after drawing Trump wrath by Jennifer Shutt June 29, 2025 Will control of Congress shift? The results hinge on a handful of states and races by Jennifer Shutt November 1, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.