Audubon’s Marshall Johnson offers warnings and hope for Minnesota birders Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ENVIRONMENT Audubon conservation officer warns Minnesota could lose its iconic loons, but offers tips to help birds survive. Marshall Johnson is the National Audubon Society’s chief conservation officer—a Black millennial in a field often perceived as white and old. Johnson fell in love with the birds of the north, and wants to make sure they’re here to stay. by Andrew Hazzard November 15, 2022 November 15, 2022 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Aububon's chief conservation officer Marshall Johnson. Credit: submitted image Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Marshall Johnson issued a grim warning: The common loon, the Minnesota state bird and a symbol of the north woods, will disappear from the state in many of our lifetimes if the planet continues to warm at a rapid rate. Loons—the black and white water birds known for their haunting calls—are threatened by early season heat waves that disrupt their breeding season, said Johnson, the chief conservation officer for the National Audubon Society. That’s becoming increasingly common in Minnesota due to climate change caused by the burning of fossil fuels. Global average temperatures are currently 1.1 degrees Celsius warmer than before the Industrial Revolution; if that rises to three degrees, Johnson said, the loon will have to move north, leaving Minnesota behind. It doesn’t have to be that way, Johnson recently told a crowd at the University of Minnesota’s Northrop Auditorium. He offered optimism and insights about how bird enthusiasts can help fight global warming in a speech at the University of Minnesota’s lecture series, “Advancing Climate Solutions. Now.” “I want to bring you a hopeful message,” said Johnson, who donned a large-brimmed cowboy hat. The common loon, the Minnesota state bird. Credit: Evan Frost | MPR News His November 10 talk focused on the impact of global warming on bird populations and potential solutions, but also touched on the importance of diversity in conservation organizations. Johnson didn’t expect to rise through the ranks of the National Audubon Society, or to end up fighting to help preserve species like the sandhill crane. Johnson, who was raised between Dallas, Texas, and Los Angeles, California, attended the University of Minnesota Crookston to study business and play football. He fell in love with the birds of the northern prairie and forests. “I never knew we needed to protect birds, or that birds needed protection,” Johnson said. After school, he took what he thought would be a six-month role as a climate organizer for Audubon. Thirteen years later, the 36-year-old is the group’s chief conservation officer. Johnson is a Black millennial in a field often perceived as white and old. Outside groups often ask him for advice about how to increase organizational diversity. What organizations often miss, he said, is that simply hiring more people of color isn’t the whole solution. He often tells them that the organization’s culture needs to change. “As a person of color, I bring all of myself to the work,” he said. Related Stories People of color, LGBTQ birdwatchers find camaraderie at the Urban Bird Collective. Frost. Then blistering heat. Drought. And now the bugs. Minnesota immigrant farmers are struggling with the effects of climate change in their fields. The calendar says June; the weather says August. Minnesota’s record heat wave a sign of what’s to come. Based in Fargo, North Dakota, Johnson helps develop national conservation programs that Audubon chapters nationwide are adopting to preserve bird habitat. At times, he acknowledged, birders have clashed with renewable energy projects, such as wind farms, due to concerns that they could harm birds. But the risk of a warming planet is much greater, Johnson said. Bird populations in North America have decreased by about 30 percent since the 1970s, according to Audubon. Grassland birds such as the prairie chicken—Johnson’s favorite—are at the biggest risk for population decline. At Audubon, Johnson helped develop and expand a conservation program that partners with large ranch owners to promote biodiversity and bird-friendly land management practices. A key lesson he learned is that promoting healthy soils and grasslands is a win-win for ranchers and birds, and that mutually beneficial relationships with landowners are necessary for success. Today, the Audubon's Conservation Ranching Initiative has close to four million acres enrolled in 16 states. Birders should focus on climate solutions that emphasize land conservation and promote renewable energy projects that are built outside of major bird migration zones, Johnson said. Restoring forests, grasslands, and waterways adds plants that capture carbon from the air while creating habitat for birds and other wildlife. He praised Audubon’s Upper Mississippi River Program in northern Minnesota, which is working to restore forests and reestablish natural water levels to improve bird habitat. There are big and small ways recreational birders can help their favorite creatures and the environment, Johnson said. Buying food grown on bird-friendly farms and ranches can make a big impact, he said. People can also enter their zip codes on the Audubon website, and find plant species to install in their yards and balconies that support birds. “Your backyard can be a vital stop point for birds,” he said. 🟥 READ MORE St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Big Lake agrivoltaics project shows promise of mixing farming, solar power Minnesota Attorney General, consumer advocates challenge Xcel Energy rate increase Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Audubon , birding , Birding while Black , University of Minnesota Andrew Hazzard ahazzard@sahanjournal.com x Andrew Hazzard is a reporter with Sahan Journal who focuses on climate change and environmental justice issues. After starting his career in daily newspapers in Mississippi and North Dakota, Andrew returned... More by Andrew Hazzard Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close