Unionized home care workers win 31% raise in tentative agreement with Minnesota officials &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 15:55 Brief Health Care Work & Money The Potluck Unionized home care workers win 31% raise in tentative agreement with Minnesota officials By Max Nesterak - January 6, 2023 3:55 pm Nora Clark helps her client, Scott Semo, shave. Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer. Roughly 20,000 of Minnesota’s home care workers will see their biggest pay raise in history over the next two years, under a contract reached between the administration of Gov. Tim Walz and SEIU Healthcare Minnesota, the union representing the workers. The home care workers help elderly and disabled people with daily tasks such as bathing and eating through a program funded by Medicaid and state subsidies. Under the tentative agreement, the minimum wage will rise from $15.25 to $19 an hour in 2024 and $20 an hour in 2025. The $4.75 an hour raise over two years is more than double the largest raise workers have seen since unionizing in 2014. The tentative agreement also establishes a wage scale for the first time, so veteran workers will earn as much as $22.50 an hour by 2025. Workers who have been a home care worker for at least six months in July 2023 will also receive a one-time $1,000 retention bonus. “I feel that together with the big wage floor increase, this new wage scale means that home care workers will be able to protect our own dignity and integrity by having the option to work our way out of poverty and maybe not having to work multiple jobs any more to make ends meet,” said home care worker Tavona Johnson in a statement from SEIU announcing the agreement. The tentative agreement must be approved by workers and the Legislature, which must also pass a spending bill to pay for the raises. A tight labor market and soaring inflation has led employers to raise wages for low-wage workers at the fastest clip in decades — though not enough on average to offset inflation . Rising wages elsewhere in the labor market has worsened the shortage of home care workers, leading to tragic consequences as some clients don’t receive the care they need. There were more than 15,000 vacancies for home health care jobs at the end of 2021, a 60% increase over 2020, according to the most recent state data. Workers and employers say the median wage is too low to attract qualified candidates and hope the historic boost in pay will attract more workers. X Republish Post Unionized home care workers win 31% raise in tentative agreement with Minnesota officials by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer January 6, 2023 Unionized home care workers win 31% raise in tentative agreement with Minnesota officials by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer January 6, 2023 Roughly 20,000 of Minnesota’s home care workers will see their biggest pay raise in history over the next two years, under a contract reached between the administration of Gov. Tim Walz and SEIU Healthcare Minnesota, the union representing the workers. The home care workers help elderly and disabled people with daily tasks such as bathing and eating through a program funded by Medicaid and state subsidies. Under the tentative agreement, the minimum wage will rise from $15.25 to $19 an hour in 2024 and $20 an hour in 2025. The $4.75 an hour raise over two years is more than double the largest raise workers have seen since unionizing in 2014. The tentative agreement also establishes a wage scale for the first time, so veteran workers will earn as much as $22.50 an hour by 2025. Workers who have been a home care worker for at least six months in July 2023 will also receive a one-time $1,000 retention bonus. “I feel that together with the big wage floor increase, this new wage scale means that home care workers will be able to protect our own dignity and integrity by having the option to work our way out of poverty and maybe not having to work multiple jobs any more to make ends meet,” said home care worker Tavona Johnson in a statement from SEIU announcing the agreement. The tentative agreement must be approved by workers and the Legislature, which must also pass a spending bill to pay for the raises. A tight labor market and soaring inflation has led employers to raise wages for low-wage workers at the fastest clip in decades — though not enough on average to offset inflation . Rising wages elsewhere in the labor market has worsened the shortage of home care workers, leading to tragic consequences as some clients don’t receive the care they need. There were more than 15,000 vacancies for home health care jobs at the end of 2021, a 60% increase over 2020, according to the most recent state data. Workers and employers say the median wage is too low to attract qualified candidates and hope the historic boost in pay will attract more workers. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Unionized hospital doctors reach deal with Allina Health after historic 4-day strike by Max Nesterak September 23, 2026 Allina hospital doctors walk off the job in historic 4-day strike in Minnesota by Max Nesterak September 14, 2026 Hospital CEOs meet union skepticism over out-of-state acquisition of Allina Health by Alyssa Chen July 15, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.