US senators denounce immigration agents’ use of force in deadly Minneapolis shootings &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 15:05 republished Civil Rights DC Bureau immigration US senators denounce immigration agents’ use of force in deadly Minneapolis shootings By Ariana Figueroa - February 12, 2026 3:05 pm A growing memorial stands Wednesday, Jan. 28, 2026 where Alex Pretti, 37, was shot and killed by Border Patrol agents days before at Nicollet Avenue and 26th Street in Minneapolis. (Photo by Nicole Neri/Minnesota Reformer) WASHINGTON — The top leaders of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee showed a play-by-play video leading up to the fatal shooting in Minneapolis of Alex Pretti by Customs and Border Protection officers, as they grilled the heads of two federal immigration agencies about the incident during an oversight hearing Thursday. Chairman Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said there needs to be accountability following the deaths of Pretti, an intensive care unit nurse and Renee Good, a mother of three and poet, in January at the hands of immigration agents. “The thousands of people in the streets in Minneapolis and in Minnesota and the millions of viewers who witnessed the recent deaths, it's clearly evident that the public trust has been lost,” Paul said. “To restore trust in (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) and Border Patrol, they must admit their mistakes, be honest and forthright with their rules of engagement and pledge to reform.” Paul and Michigan Sen. Gary Peters, the top Democrat on the panel, questioned ICE acting Director Todd Lyons and CBP Commissioner Rodney Scott about immigration officers' use of force tactics and whether the agents followed de-escalation procedures. “You have to look at what your rules are for drawing weapons, because it appears to me they’re not using the same standards as the police,” Paul said of immigration agents. It was the second congressional oversight hearing for Scott and Lyons this week. Democrats and Republicans are at a stalemate over funding for the agency for fiscal year 2026, with Democrats demanding changes in immigration enforcement tactics after the deadly encounters in Minneapolis. The shutdown will not stop President Donald Trump’s mass deportation push, however. Even if an agreement to fund DHS is not reached by Friday and the agency is closed, ICE still has $75 billion in funding from the tax and spending package from last year. Minutes into Thursday's hearing, border czar Tom Homan announced that immigration enforcement operations would end in Minneapolis after two months. Pretti pepper sprayed, held down Paul and Peters showed the leaders of CBP and ICE a New York Times video analysis leading up to the shooting of Pretti , who was pepper sprayed and tackled to the ground by multiple immigration officers. He was held down and at least 10 shots can be heard on video. Lyons and Scott declined to comment on the clips shown, saying there are multiple ongoing investigations. Scott said the FBI, CBP and ICE were conducting their own investigations. Paul expressed his frustration with that answer and pointed to the lead-up to Pretti’s encounters with federal officers. The video shows a woman yelling at a federal immigration officer. She is shoved to the ground and Pretti goes to help her up. “No one in America believes shoving that woman's head, in the face, in the snow, was de-escalation,” Paul said. Paul asked if an appropriate response to someone yelling is to shove them to the ground. Scott said it was not, but that he couldn’t comment on the specific video. Paul said that in the video it’s clear that Pretti is using his hand to protect his face from pepper spray. “He is retreating at every moment,” Paul said. “He's trying to get away, and he's being sprayed in the face. I don't think that's de-escalatory. That's an escalatory thing.” Paul said an investigation needs to be done quickly. Scott said there is body camera footage from the officers involved in Pretti’s shooting that will be released to the public. “I don't think this should take months and months and years and years,” Paul said. “There needs to be a conclusion.” Peters pointed to how immigration officers are seen beating Pretti with a pepper spray canister. He asked Scott if that was an appropriate response. “What I'm seeing is a subject that's also not complying, he's not following any guidance. He's fighting back nonstop,” Scott said, adding that he couldn’t answer Peters’ question because the investigation was ongoing. Peters then questioned Scott and Lyons on why DHS Secretary Kristi Noem quickly labeled Good and Pretti as “domestic terrorists.” He asked the men if they had given her any briefing or additional information for her to have drawn that conclusion. Both said they had not. Michigan Democratic Sen. Elissa Slotkin also told Lyons that she was concerned about statements made by Trump about sending immigration agents to polling locations ahead of the midterm elections. “There’s no reason for us to deploy to a polling facility,” he said. Minnesota withdrawal Oklahoma Republican Sen. James Lankford informed the first panel, which brought Minnesota leaders to the nation’s capital, of Homan’s announcement that the surge would be ending in Minneapolis. The first panel included GOP Rep. Tom Emmer of Minnesota; Minnesota House Republican Floor Leader Harry Niska; Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, a Democrat; and the commissioner of the Department of Corrections for the state of Minnesota, Paul Schnell. Lankford said there needs to be better coordination between local and federal law enforcement, such as 287(g) agreements. In those partnerships, which are voluntary, local law enforcement will notify ICE if they arrest someone who is in the country unlawfully and hold that person until federal immigration officers can arrive. “So the position that my office has taken is that, if you are a sheriff who wants to pursue 287(g), you must have the support of your county board,” Ellison said, adding that seven counties have such agreements. One Republican, Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, blamed the deaths of Pretti and Good not on the immigration agents who killed them. He said they occurred because Ellison urged Minnesotans to exercise their First Amendment rights. “Two people are dead because you encouraged them to put themselves into harm's way,” Johnson said to Ellison. “And now you are exploiting those two martyrs. You ought to feel damn guilty about it.” In response, Ellison said, “It was a nice theatrical performance but it was all lies.” &#8216;Occupied by the federal government' New Jersey Democratic Sen. Andy Kim noted that the number of ICE agents, about 3,000, initially sent to Minneapolis, significantly dwarfed the local police, which is roughly under 600. He asked Ellison how it felt in Minneapolis to have that many federal immigration agents in the city. “It felt like we were being occupied by the federal government,” Ellison said. During the second panel, Kim asked Lyons if ICE is planning to conduct a similar operation in other cities. Lyons said the agency would, and said he learned lessons from the deportation drive in Minneapolis. “We look at lessons learned,” Lyons said. “The problem, I believe, is the … agitators and the coordination on the protest side. People can go out there and protest, but why are we going to encourage individuals to go out there and impede and put themselves in harm's way? I think that's the lesson learned from this.” X Republish Post US senators denounce immigration agents’ use of force in deadly Minneapolis shootings by Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer February 12, 2026 US senators denounce immigration agents’ use of force in deadly Minneapolis shootings by Ariana Figueroa, Minnesota Reformer February 12, 2026 WASHINGTON — The top leaders of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee showed a play-by-play video leading up to the fatal shooting in Minneapolis of Alex Pretti by Customs and Border Protection officers, as they grilled the heads of two federal immigration agencies about the incident during an oversight hearing Thursday. Chairman Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said there needs to be accountability following the deaths of Pretti, an intensive care unit nurse and Renee Good, a mother of three and poet, in January at the hands of immigration agents. “The thousands of people in the streets in Minneapolis and in Minnesota and the millions of viewers who witnessed the recent deaths, it's clearly evident that the public trust has been lost,” Paul said. “To restore trust in (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) and Border Patrol, they must admit their mistakes, be honest and forthright with their rules of engagement and pledge to reform.” Paul and Michigan Sen. Gary Peters, the top Democrat on the panel, questioned ICE acting Director Todd Lyons and CBP Commissioner Rodney Scott about immigration officers' use of force tactics and whether the agents followed de-escalation procedures. “You have to look at what your rules are for drawing weapons, because it appears to me they’re not using the same standards as the police,” Paul said of immigration agents. It was the second congressional oversight hearing for Scott and Lyons this week. Democrats and Republicans are at a stalemate over funding for the agency for fiscal year 2026, with Democrats demanding changes in immigration enforcement tactics after the deadly encounters in Minneapolis. The shutdown will not stop President Donald Trump’s mass deportation push, however. Even if an agreement to fund DHS is not reached by Friday and the agency is closed, ICE still has $75 billion in funding from the tax and spending package from last year. Minutes into Thursday's hearing, border czar Tom Homan announced that immigration enforcement operations would end in Minneapolis after two months. Pretti pepper sprayed, held down Paul and Peters showed the leaders of CBP and ICE a New York Times video analysis leading up to the shooting of Pretti , who was pepper sprayed and tackled to the ground by multiple immigration officers. He was held down and at least 10 shots can be heard on video. Lyons and Scott declined to comment on the clips shown, saying there are multiple ongoing investigations. Scott said the FBI, CBP and ICE were conducting their own investigations. Paul expressed his frustration with that answer and pointed to the lead-up to Pretti’s encounters with federal officers. The video shows a woman yelling at a federal immigration officer. She is shoved to the ground and Pretti goes to help her up. “No one in America believes shoving that woman's head, in the face, in the snow, was de-escalation,” Paul said. Paul asked if an appropriate response to someone yelling is to shove them to the ground. Scott said it was not, but that he couldn’t comment on the specific video. Paul said that in the video it’s clear that Pretti is using his hand to protect his face from pepper spray. “He is retreating at every moment,” Paul said. “He's trying to get away, and he's being sprayed in the face. I don't think that's de-escalatory. That's an escalatory thing.” Paul said an investigation needs to be done quickly. Scott said there is body camera footage from the officers involved in Pretti’s shooting that will be released to the public. “I don't think this should take months and months and years and years,” Paul said. “There needs to be a conclusion.” Peters pointed to how immigration officers are seen beating Pretti with a pepper spray canister. He asked Scott if that was an appropriate response. “What I'm seeing is a subject that's also not complying, he's not following any guidance. He's fighting back nonstop,” Scott said, adding that he couldn’t answer Peters’ question because the investigation was ongoing. Peters then questioned Scott and Lyons on why DHS Secretary Kristi Noem quickly labeled Good and Pretti as “domestic terrorists.” He asked the men if they had given her any briefing or additional information for her to have drawn that conclusion. Both said they had not. Michigan Democratic Sen. Elissa Slotkin also told Lyons that she was concerned about statements made by Trump about sending immigration agents to polling locations ahead of the midterm elections. “There’s no reason for us to deploy to a polling facility,” he said. Minnesota withdrawal Oklahoma Republican Sen. James Lankford informed the first panel, which brought Minnesota leaders to the nation’s capital, of Homan’s announcement that the surge would be ending in Minneapolis. The first panel included GOP Rep. Tom Emmer of Minnesota; Minnesota House Republican Floor Leader Harry Niska; Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, a Democrat; and the commissioner of the Department of Corrections for the state of Minnesota, Paul Schnell. Lankford said there needs to be better coordination between local and federal law enforcement, such as 287(g) agreements. In those partnerships, which are voluntary, local law enforcement will notify ICE if they arrest someone who is in the country unlawfully and hold that person until federal immigration officers can arrive. “So the position that my office has taken is that, if you are a sheriff who wants to pursue 287(g), you must have the support of your county board,” Ellison said, adding that seven counties have such agreements. One Republican, Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, blamed the deaths of Pretti and Good not on the immigration agents who killed them. He said they occurred because Ellison urged Minnesotans to exercise their First Amendment rights. “Two people are dead because you encouraged them to put themselves into harm's way,” Johnson said to Ellison. “And now you are exploiting those two martyrs. You ought to feel damn guilty about it.” In response, Ellison said, “It was a nice theatrical performance but it was all lies.” &#8216;Occupied by the federal government' New Jersey Democratic Sen. Andy Kim noted that the number of ICE agents, about 3,000, initially sent to Minneapolis, significantly dwarfed the local police, which is roughly under 600. He asked Ellison how it felt in Minneapolis to have that many federal immigration agents in the city. “It felt like we were being occupied by the federal government,” Ellison said. During the second panel, Kim asked Lyons if ICE is planning to conduct a similar operation in other cities. Lyons said the agency would, and said he learned lessons from the deportation drive in Minneapolis. “We look at lessons learned,” Lyons said. “The problem, I believe, is the … agitators and the coordination on the protest side. People can go out there and protest, but why are we going to encourage individuals to go out there and impede and put themselves in harm's way? I think that's the lesson learned from this.” Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Ariana Figueroa Ariana covers the nation's capital for States Newsroom. Her coverage areas include immigration, congressional policy and legal challenges with a focus on how those policies impact the lives of immigrants and migrants coming to the U.S. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom &#8216;Alligator Alcatraz' probed by Dems as ICE detention centers multiply in states by Ariana Figueroa August 20, 2025 Bleak future for immigration action after U.S. Senate GOP abandons border security deal by Jennifer Shutt and Ariana Figueroa February 6, 2024 Intense opposition to U.S. Senate immigration deal quickly emerges by Ariana Figueroa February 5, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.