St. Paul will hire outside firm to defend mayor from police chief’s lawsuit Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in POLITICS ‘We are in a horrible position’: St. Paul council approves legal defense for Mayor Kaohly Her The city will pay up to $500 an hour to defend the mayor in a sexual harassment lawsuit filed by Police Chief Axel Henry. by Mohamed Ibrahim September 30, 2026 September 30, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook St. Paul Police Chief Axel Henry and Mayor Kaohly Her. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal and Chris Juhn for Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The St. Paul City Council voted unanimously on Wednesday to appoint an outside law firm to represent Mayor Kaohly Her in a sexual harassment lawsuit filed by Police Chief Axel Henry despite voicing frustrations about a lack of transparency and costs incurred by the city. “I wish that we were spending money on literally anything else,” Council President Rebecca Noecker said during the meeting. The lawsuit filed by Henry’s attorney last week alleges Her sexually harassed him on several occasions shortly after she took office in January, including making a reference to his penis size and placing a hand on his thigh during a meeting. The lawsuit also alleges Her retaliated against Henry after the chief filed a workplace complaint with the city’s Human Resources Department. The city hired an outside law firm to investigate after Henry first raised sexual harassment allegations earlier this year. A summary of the firm’s findings , which cleared the mayor of harassment, was released earlier this month. Noecker told reporters after the meeting Wednesday that she expects the full findings of the report to be made available to the mayor, police chief, City Council and, ultimately, the public within the week following redactions. She said she expects details of the costs associated with the investigation to also be released by the city attorney. Council members took the vote immediately after about an hourlong, closed-door meeting. Noecker, Saura Jost, Molly Coleman, HwaJeong Kim and Cheniqua Johnson made up the 5-0 tally, while Council Members Anika Bowie and Nelsie Yang were absent. Noecker explained council members were bound by “rigorous” statutory requirements that require the city to “indemnify and defend” its employees, unless certain conditions are met. The council will meet again next week to retain another attorney, who will formally decide whether those conditions apply to the mayor's defense and if the city is obligated to pay for it. In the meantime, since the city has to legally respond to the lawsuit by Oct. 14 and Her needs to respond by Oct. 16, council members had to make a decision immediately. They voted to retain Fisher Phillips, an outside law firm that can bill the city up to $500 per hour. RELATED STORIES Mayor Her was ‘offensive, inappropriate,’ but did not commit sexual harassment, investigation finds St. Paul Police Chief Axel Henry files sexual harassment lawsuit against Mayor Kaohly Her St. Paul Mayor Kaohly Her embroiled in sexual harassment probe amid high-profile camp closure, budget rollout “We are in a horrible position and we have very few options,” said Coleman, who represents Ward 4. “We will be spending unknown sums of money, significant sums of money, to defend against claims that we know nothing about, despite the fact that our money has already been used to investigate those very claims.” Council members said it is unclear what the total cost of the legal fees will be, only that St. Paul taxpayers will bear the cost since the city has no specific litigation budget, requiring the money to come from the city’s general fund. The extra costs come as council members aim to put together a 2027 budget amid a projected $26 million budget shortfall. Noecker told reporters potential litigation against the city is always a cost that council members can’t factor into the city’s budget each year, but should the cost of the lawsuit balloon, it’ll be challenging to figure out how to pay for it. “I’m not going to sugarcoat it,” Noecker said. “If this is an extremely expensive lawsuit, we do not have funds sitting around to cover the cost of that, and that is going to be really difficult for us.” Coleman noted Wednesday’s meeting was taking place just one day shy of six months since the city attorney received the letter from Chris Madel, Henry’s attorney, that outlined allegations of sexual harassment against the mayor by city employees, including St. Paul police officers. Coleman said the council learned of the allegations via news reports, and that council members, as well as the public, have been “kept in the dark” about the investigation by the Her administration. “Neither the council nor the public has been informed of the total cost of this investigation [and] neither the council nor the public has seen the findings of this report,” Coleman said. “While vague media reports have circulated that the report will be made public soon, we’re left with the allegations in the chief’s 73-page report and an investigation summary prepared by an appointee of the mayor herself.” Upon the filing of the lawsuit, a spokesman for the mayor declined to comment on active litigation but pointed to the findings of the independent investigation into the workplace complaint. The outside investigator, Resolute Law, found that Her had created an “uncomfortable” work environment and made “inappropriate” comments but that the mayor’s conduct did not amount to sexual harassment. READ MORE Here’s how St. Paul Mayor Kaohly Her responded to questions in her sexual harassment investigation How ICE-response networks are being transformed for Minnesota elections Peggy Flanagan eyes Trump, ICE and Indian affairs in race for U.S. Senate Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Axel Henry , St. Paul , St. Paul Mayor Kaohly Her , St. Paul Police Department Mohamed Ibrahim mibrahim@sahanjournal.com x Mohamed Ibrahim is the public safety reporter for Sahan Journal. Before joining Sahan, Mohamed worked for the nonprofit news site, MinnPost, covering public safety and the environment. He also worked as... More by Mohamed Ibrahim Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close