Prairie Island celebrates steps toward a green future Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ENVIRONMENT In the shadow of a nuclear plant, Prairie Island celebrates steps toward a green future The Tribal Nation is about two years into an effort to cut its members’ energy costs with a solar field and other eco-friendly projects. by Gustav DeMars October 2, 2023 September 29, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Prairie Island resident Tina Jefferson stands in front of solar panels on September 21, 2023. The Prairie Island Indian Community is building a field of solar panels to cut down on tribal members' energy costs. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Standing in the same former bean field he played in as a child, Prairie Island Indian Community President Johnny Johnson recently led a crowd of project partners and community members in celebrating progress on the tribe’s net zero carbon project. More than two years after its inception, the project features an almost complete solar field, in-the-works geothermal energy wells, and plans to reduce energy consumption and costs for Prairie Island residents. “It was a long and worthwhile journey,” Johnson said. “Our path to net zero is a transformational opportunity, not just for the Prairie Island Community, but for any community that is trying to reduce its impact on the environment.” Prairie Island Indian Community President Johnny Johnson's family had no electricity or running water until 1968, when the federal government built 12 homes in the community. Johnson is pictured on September 21, 2023. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Prairie island first contacted legislators in 2018 to get support for the project, Johnson said. It wasn’t until two years later in 2020 that Governor Tim Walz signed legislation greenlighting the project. The Prairie Island Indian Community reservation, which lies along the Mississippi and Vermillion rivers in and adjacent to Red Wing in southeastern Minnesota, is home to descendants of the Mdewakanton Band of Eastern Dakota. Johnson’s family had no electricity or running water until 1968, when the federal government built 12 homes in the community. Tribal members now live in about 150 homes. The reservation operates the Treasure Island Casino, which has operated since the 1980s. related sTORIES White Earth Tribal College becomes a bright spot for solar-energy job training. Native-run solar firm aims to lower heating emissions and costs. Rooftop solar atop affordable apartments in Minneapolis connects residents to savings As the community has grown, so has the need for energy. Now built atop what was once an unused pile of sand dredged from the Mississippi is a mostly complete 5.4-megawatt field of solar panels that Prairie Island leaders hope will be a step toward what they call “energy sovereignty.” The solar field is not currently in operation; it’s expected to be up and running in early 2024. Energy has long been a topic of conversation for Prairie Island’s community, which sits in the shadow of one of Minnesota’s two nuclear power plants. In 1973, the federal government authorized construction of the facility less than a mile from the reservation. Over the years, many Prairie Island tribal members have voiced dismay that the plant and nuclear waste storage are so close to their reservation. In March, Xcel Energy agreed to increase its annual payment to the community from $2.5 million to $10 million to compensate it for storing spent nuclear waste near its land. The Prairie Island Indian Community is installing a field of solar panels, pictured on September 21, 2023, to cut down on tribal members' energy costs. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Plans for the future Knobelsdorff, an industrial electrical contractor, partnered with Prairie Island to install the solar field, according to its CEO, Karl von Knobelsdorff. Construction of the geothermal plant and wells included in the project's plans is still in its early stages, with drilling having only recently begun near the solar field. Prairie Island and its partners expect it to be completed in 2025. Geothermal wells use temperatures underground, which remain relatively consistent, to heat or cool buildings depending on the season. Another key part of the net zero carbon project highlighted Thursday by Prairie Island leaders is the Residential Energy Upgrade Program. There are hopes it will reduce both energy consumption and costs for residents by upgrading insulation and converting heating systems and stoves to electricity. Five tribal members worked on installing the solar field. They were excited about learning to work with solar energy, Johnson said. “Each and every one of them said they either wanted to continue working on a project similar to this, or just be more involved in the solar project here,” he said. Solar Bear, a Native American-owned solar installation company based in Minneapolis, worked with Knobelsdorff to create a program to train Prairie Island tribal members to work on the project. Von Knobelsdorff said three of the tribal members who have been working on the project will stay on as full-time employees. Tribal members get involved Five years ago, before the net zero project had even gained traction, Prairie Island resident Tina Jefferson installed solar panels on her roof to power lights all around her yard. “My grandkids think I’m crazy—‘Grandma, you’ve got all these lights everywhere!’” Jefferson said. “Well, I don’t have to pay for electricity—it’s free!” The Prairie Island Indian Community in southeastern Minnesota, pictured on September 21, 2023, is installing a solar panels and geothermal wells to cut down on tribal members' energy costs. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Although her house isn't fully powered by solar, it’s a step toward what she sees as the future for herself and her community. Jefferson participated in “Intro to Solar” classes Prairie Island offered community members, then went on to help build the solar array in the field. “Part of the reason why I joined this project is because I wanted to express that we as individuals want that in our homes," Jefferson said. “We want to be off the grid as much as possible.” Jefferson hopes Prairie Island’s project will inspire other tribal communities in Minnesota to take on similar projects. “I know several community members there [Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community], and they’ve talked about watching what we’re doing," she said. READ MORE Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Here’s how St. Paul Mayor Kaohly Her responded to questions in her sexual harassment investigation Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Johnny Johnson , Prairie Island Indian Community , Solar energy , solar power Gustav DeMars gustavjdemars@gmail.com Gustav DeMars is a freelance journalist who previously interned with Sahan Journal. He is studying journalism and Spanish at the University of Minnesota. More by Gustav DeMars Latest Articles Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Here’s how St. Paul Mayor Kaohly Her responded to questions in her sexual harassment investigation ‘What will students actually gain?’ North Minneapolis parents slam proposed school closures About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close