Booster shot of Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine recommended by FDA panel &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 15:35 Brief COVID-19 DC Bureau The Potluck Booster shot of Johnson &#038; Johnson COVID-19 vaccine recommended by FDA panel By Laura Olson and Rilyn Eischens - October 15, 2021 3:35 pm Boxes of the Covid-19 Johnson &#038; Johnson vaccine are ready to be distributed on March 26, 2021 on the grounds of the Toyota plant in Buffalo, West Virginia. Photo by Stephen Zenner/Getty Images. WASHINGTON — A federal vaccine advisory panel on Friday endorsed a second dose of Johnson & Johnson’s one-shot COVID-19 vaccine, meaning millions more Americans are expected to soon join the line for booster shots. Anyone who received a J&J shot at least two months ago will be eligible for an additional dose, under the committee’s recommendation. The Food and Drug Administration is expected to follow the advice of its advisory panel. Formal guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also is required, and expected to occur as soon as next week. Authorization of the second dose will essentially turn the one-dose J&J vaccine into a two-shot regime like those from Pfizer and Moderna, which use a different type of technology to spur the immune system to create antibodies. The recommendation comes as Minnesota is experiencing one of the nation's worst outbreaks of COVID-19. Over the past seven days, the state has reported an average of 52 new cases per 100,000 each day, according to the Mayo Clinic — the seventh-highest rate in the country. The state's test positivity rate — which lags a week — has ticked up to 8.4%, the highest since the surge of infections over the fall and winter. Nearly 1,000 people were hospitalized with COVID-19 Thursday, and hospitals in the metro are nearly at capacity as the wave of infections strains health care systems. Health officials say hospitalizations are primarily among unvaccinated Minnesotans. More than 3.45 million Minnesotans — 73% of the population over 12 — have at least one dose of vaccine, and 70% are fully vaccinated. That FDA advisory panel vote came a day after the same group of independent vaccine experts recommended a third dose of Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine for older and higher-risk adults, as well as certain workers. That same population also has been recommended to receive a third dose of the Pfizer shot to ensure better protection against infection. The one-dose shot from J&J’s vaccine division, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, initially was approved in February . Since then, more than 15 million Americans have received it. By relying on one dose instead of two, the J&J shot was heralded as logistically helpful in vaccinating harder-to-reach populations, such as those who may not be able to easily return for a second jab. Early in the shot’s deployment, its use was briefly paused as federal regulators reviewed data on a rare but serious blood-clotting condition identified in some women. It was allowed to be used again 11 days later , with providers directed to inform patients about the warning about the rare blood clots. Regulators on Friday found no evidence of serious safety concerns, though they did express frustration about receiving little time to independently review some of the company’s data. But there was unanimous agreement that there was enough data to show that the benefits of a second dose of the J&J shot outweighed the risks. One factor in that discussion was the effectiveness of Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine, which has been lower than that of the two-dose vaccines from Moderna and Pfizer. A lingering issue that the panel did not resolve is whether those who received the J&J vaccine should be able to get a follow-up dose of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, given the differences in the efficacy rates in those shots. The FDA panel did hear a presentation from a scientist who helped lead a study on mixing doses from different drug manufacturers. But it did not vote on whether to recommend mixed doses, or set a timeline for doing so. X Republish Post Booster shot of Johnson &#038; Johnson COVID-19 vaccine recommended by FDA panel by Laura Olson and Rilyn Eischens, Minnesota Reformer October 15, 2021 Booster shot of Johnson &#038; Johnson COVID-19 vaccine recommended by FDA panel by Laura Olson and Rilyn Eischens, Minnesota Reformer October 15, 2021 WASHINGTON — A federal vaccine advisory panel on Friday endorsed a second dose of Johnson & Johnson’s one-shot COVID-19 vaccine, meaning millions more Americans are expected to soon join the line for booster shots. Anyone who received a J&J shot at least two months ago will be eligible for an additional dose, under the committee’s recommendation. The Food and Drug Administration is expected to follow the advice of its advisory panel. Formal guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also is required, and expected to occur as soon as next week. Authorization of the second dose will essentially turn the one-dose J&J vaccine into a two-shot regime like those from Pfizer and Moderna, which use a different type of technology to spur the immune system to create antibodies. The recommendation comes as Minnesota is experiencing one of the nation's worst outbreaks of COVID-19. Over the past seven days, the state has reported an average of 52 new cases per 100,000 each day, according to the Mayo Clinic — the seventh-highest rate in the country. The state's test positivity rate — which lags a week — has ticked up to 8.4%, the highest since the surge of infections over the fall and winter. Nearly 1,000 people were hospitalized with COVID-19 Thursday, and hospitals in the metro are nearly at capacity as the wave of infections strains health care systems. Health officials say hospitalizations are primarily among unvaccinated Minnesotans. More than 3.45 million Minnesotans — 73% of the population over 12 — have at least one dose of vaccine, and 70% are fully vaccinated. That FDA advisory panel vote came a day after the same group of independent vaccine experts recommended a third dose of Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine for older and higher-risk adults, as well as certain workers. That same population also has been recommended to receive a third dose of the Pfizer shot to ensure better protection against infection. The one-dose shot from J&J’s vaccine division, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, initially was approved in February . Since then, more than 15 million Americans have received it. By relying on one dose instead of two, the J&J shot was heralded as logistically helpful in vaccinating harder-to-reach populations, such as those who may not be able to easily return for a second jab. Early in the shot’s deployment, its use was briefly paused as federal regulators reviewed data on a rare but serious blood-clotting condition identified in some women. It was allowed to be used again 11 days later , with providers directed to inform patients about the warning about the rare blood clots. Regulators on Friday found no evidence of serious safety concerns, though they did express frustration about receiving little time to independently review some of the company’s data. But there was unanimous agreement that there was enough data to show that the benefits of a second dose of the J&J shot outweighed the risks. One factor in that discussion was the effectiveness of Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine, which has been lower than that of the two-dose vaccines from Moderna and Pfizer. A lingering issue that the panel did not resolve is whether those who received the J&J vaccine should be able to get a follow-up dose of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, given the differences in the efficacy rates in those shots. The FDA panel did hear a presentation from a scientist who helped lead a study on mixing doses from different drug manufacturers. But it did not vote on whether to recommend mixed doses, or set a timeline for doing so. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Laura Olson Laura covers the nation's capital as a senior reporter for States Newsroom, a network of nonprofit outlets that includes Minnesota Reformer. Her areas of coverage include politics and policy, lobbying, elections, and campaign finance. MORE FROM AUTHOR Rilyn Eischens Rilyn Eischens is a former data reporter for the Minnesota Reformer. Rilyn was born and raised in Minnesota and has worked in newsrooms in the Twin Cities, Iowa, Texas and most recently Virginia, where she covered education for The Staunton News Leader. She's an alumna of the Dow Jones News Fund data journalism program and the Minnesota Daily. When Rilyn isn't in the newsroom, she likes to read, add to her plant collection and try new recipes. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom FDA greenlights new COVID vaccine after a summer of rising numbers of cases by Jennifer Shutt August 22, 2024 Fauci defends his work on COVID-19, says he has an ‘open mind’ on its origins by Jennifer Shutt June 3, 2024 Food and Drug Administration approves COVID boosters for upcoming season by Jennifer Shutt September 11, 2023 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.