Special Session called in Minnesota to finish work on budget - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Special Session called in Minnesota to finish work on budget By WDIO --> (WDIO, File) On Friday, Governor Tim Walz announced he will call a special session after reaching a budget agreement with Republican and Democratic legislative caucus leaders. The special session will begin on Monday, June 9, at 10:00 a.m. "This bipartisan budget agreement makes thoughtful reductions in state spending while keeping us on track to make Minnesota the best state in the country to raise a child," Governor Walz said in a press release. "It is the result of hundreds of hours of good-faith, bipartisan debate on the best ways to improve the health, safety, and wellbeing of Minnesotans. While all sides had to make concessions in order to reach a compromise, I’m grateful to our legislative partners for their collaboration and dedication to moving Minnesota forward." According to the document of the special session agreement between caucus leaders, lawmakers will be limited to working on the remainder of the budget and bills centered around modifying MinnesotaCare for undocumented adults, regulating data centers, education policy, transportation finance and more. All bills must be finalized ahead of time, and legislative leaders will be told not to support any further amendments. Per the terms of the special session, the Legislature must adjourn by 7 a.m. Tuesday. In the press release sent out Friday, Senate Minority Leader Mark Johnson (R) said that while Senate Republicans are "not party to the overall budget agreement, we are glad to have found agreements to preserve jobs and invest in core infrastructure in our communities." This is a developing story and will be updated. MN Special Session Leader Agreement_Signed_6.6.25 Download For Related Stories: Minnesota Minnesota Legislature Tim Walz --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed