Virginia man sentenced for sexually assaulting two young children - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Virginia man sentenced for sexually assaulting two young children By WDIO --> Benjamen Johnson/SLC Jail Benjamen Robert Johnson, 38 of Virginia, has been sentenced after being charged for three felonies for sexually assaulting two young children known to him. According to court documents, he has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for one count to be served concurrently with two other sentences. He will get credit for the 533 days he's already served. Johnson was previosuly found guilty on one count of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree and two counts of criminal sexual conduct in the second degree. This is related to incidents that happened from November 2013 to December 2018. Law enforcement became aware of the assaults after one of the victims came forward to a trusted adult relative in February of 2024. “Child sexual assault is among the most devastating crimes our community can face. There is no greater betrayal of trust. We are grateful to the jury for their careful attention and decision holding Mr. Johnson accountable,” said St. Louis County Attorney Kim Maki. “Most importantly, we commend the young victims for the extraordinary courage they showed in coming forward and sharing their truth with the jury. Their strength made this outcome possible." The Virginia Police Department and the St. Louis County Public Health and Human Services Department investigated this matter. The case was prosecuted by Assistant County Attorney Amber Pederson. For Related Stories: Northern Minnesota St. Louis County Virginia --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed