Trump's AI meeting with tech CEOs to focus on finding balance, US House speaker says Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News National Trump's AI meeting with tech CEOs to focus on finding balance, US House speaker says Lawmakers in both parties have questioned Trump's hands-off approach even as the technology raises fears about safety FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with travel executives in the Oval Office at the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., September 2, 2026. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein/File Photo Evelyn Hockstein/REUTERS By Reuters September 28, 2026 at 7:26 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? By Katharine Jackson WASHINGTON, Sept 28 - President Donald Trump's meeting with tech CEOs on artificial intelligence on Tuesday will focus on finding a balance between innovation and oversight, House Speaker Mike Johnson said, as the federal government seeks to define its role in the burgeoning technology. "We do not need a moratorium. We do not need to jump in and hyper-regulate this, because we'll lose the race to China," Johnson said in an interview on Monday with Fox Business Network. "The innovation is important to continue, but we have to strike the right balance. That's what the conversation is going to be about." The White House meeting, which will include Johnson, comes as leading AI companies are calling for slowing development of increasingly capable AI systems, warning of the risks to humanity and appealing for governments to work together to manage the increasingly powerful technology. Trump has downplayed concerns over the misuse of artificial intelligence harming people as he stressed the importance of maintaining America's competitive edge over China. He says the US already has guardrails in place for the powerful technology, including at the Department of Justice. Johnson said the US should be mindful of safety but not stymie the technology's development. "I think there may be a role for the DOJ if things go awry. But what we need before we get to that stage is transparency, and we need some oversight," he said on "Mornings with Fox Business." Lawmakers in both parties have questioned Trump's hands-off approach even as the technology raises fears about safety, job losses and the concentration of power among a handful of tech companies. House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries said AI industry leaders were pleading for some government action and Congress has a responsibility to protect the American people. "So, when it comes to AI safety, it certainly seems to me that we need to actually lean in boldly and responsibly — now," Jeffries told CNBC on Monday. The president had dinner with Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei on Sunday. Anthropic and its rivals have called for slowing AI development. These include OpenAI, Google’s DeepMind, Microsoft and xAI. (Reporting by Katharine Jackson, Jacob Bogage and Trevor Hunnicutt; Editing by Doina Chiacu and Andrea Ricci ) Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next National Pain, trauma and gratitude: 9/11 remembered by those who were there Sep 11 &#183; By Thomas Tracy, Rocco Parascandola, Rebecca White, Julian Roberts-Grmela, Lincoln Anderson and Leonard Greene / New York Daily News (TNS) Minnesota US Rep. Betty McCollum remembers 9/11, 25 years later Sep 8 &#183; By Mary Murphy National Actor Tim Curry, original star of 'Rocky Horror,' dies at 80 Aug 26 &#183; By Will Dunham / Reuters ADVERTISEMENT Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.