Mpls. police remove barricades near Renee Good’s memorial Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in IMMIGRATION In early morning sweep, Minneapolis police remove barricades near Renee Good’s memorial City officials said the barricades blocking off Portland Avenue posed safety concerns. Activists and neighbors had gathered at the spot since Good’s killing by an ICE agent on Wednesday. by Shubhanjana Das January 9, 2026 Updated January 12, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Protesters blocked off Portland Ave with barricades on January 8, 2026. Minneapolis Police left the 5th precint to remove the barricade around 3:40AM, demolishing most of it. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Community members still reeling from the shooting of Renee Nicole Good by a federal agent confronted police officers in riot gear early Thursday after city officials removed makeshift barricades they had erected near the site where her car crashed into a utility pole. “Whose streets? Our streets!” they chanted as police sought to clear the area around Portland Avenue and E. 33rd and 34th streets for traffic. Still, every neighbor interviewed by Sahan Journal said they understood the need to balance safety and access with the significance of the memorial. One neighbor who spoke on condition of anonymity to protect his privacy said he was awakened at 3:53 a.m. by flashing police lights and noise outside. Looking out his window, he said he saw dozens of police officers and city workers loading wooden crates and pallets used as barricades into dump trucks. Firefighters were also on scene, extinguishing fires burning in barrels, he said. The barricades had been unattended at that hour, where community members had earlier gathered to play music and distribute food. The neighbor said he counted at least 40 officers. RELATED STORIES Minneapolis officials call for independent investigation in ICE killing of Renee Good Legal experts disagree whether use of force in ICE shooting was &#8216;unreasonable’ “They come sweeping when there’s nobody there to quickly get it out,” he said. “But these are kind of extenuating circumstances. I am thankful I can move my car out and do stuff I need to do, but I see where the citizens are coming; they’re concerned and angry, and rightfully so.” He added that he had moved to the block just a day before the shooting. City officials said the barricades posed safety concerns. “Blocking streets is a serious concern for fire and emergency medical response because it can delay response times and restrict access for emergency vehicles,” the city said in a statement. The statement added that nearby residents had raised concerns about access, and that 311 had received numerous calls requesting the barriers be removed. “The City will not remove the memorial created and maintained by community members,” the statement said. “We will continue to keep the area around these memorials clear and clean for the benefit of all.” Minneapolis police block activists from spilling over into the road on Friday, Jan. 9, 2026, near the memorial for Renee Good in south Minneapolis. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Police officer Kelly O’Rourke said officers were responding to many calls from residents of the block. “We’ve been through this before. These people don’t want to lose their home to permanent encampments. We want to [be able to] respect the memorial and mourn a loss,” O’Rourke told Sahan Journal. City officials and MPD later placed traffic cones and yellow tape along the lane adjacent to the memorial, allowing vehicles to pass while keeping the memorial intact. At the memorial, Abigail Riley confronted officers while holding her 6-year-old daughter’s hand. “I was really confused why the barriers were gone this morning,” Riley told Sahan Journal. “I got really emotional and really upset and when the cops got out I just started screaming.” Riley said she brought her son’s old crib to add to the barricades Thursday. Her daughter attends Minneapolis Public Schools, which canceled classes Thursday and Friday after U.S. Border Patrol agents detained a Roosevelt High School staff member — a U.S. citizen — outside the school on Wednesday. "I wanted to bring her to the vigil to show this is how we show up as a community, this is how we grieve," Riley said. “This is a sacred space,” said Celeste Terry, a neighbor who grew up in South Minneapolis. She was at the memorial with her friend and neighbor Jonathan McGee, who said that even though he understood the importance of the site, a memorial similar to George Floyd Square on Portland Avenue would be "very disruptive to traffic" as it is a major thoroughfare. Neighbors and activists stood watch on Friday, Jan. 9, 2026, near the memorial for Renee Good, on the south Minneapolis spot near where she was killed by an ICE agent on Jan. 7. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal “It hurts my heart that the barriers were removed because it’s not far from George Floyd Square,” said Brandon Kirk, who also grew up in the neighborhood. “We’re not discouraged because they did the same thing with George Floyd Square and we put it back up.” Kirk said he envisions a similar memorial for Good, including a street named in her honor. Not all neighbors supported the barricades. A resident who lives across from the memorial confronted protesters. “We can’t sleep, do you understand? ” she said. “They are trying to let traffic through. I don’t want traffic blocked. I don’t want an autonomous zone. I don’t want this.” She added, “ICE is all over the neighborhood right now. This isn’t the place to protest.” Later in the day, Somali women distributed tea, sambusas, fry bread, and energy drinks at the site. One of them, who identified herself only by her first name, Sofia, for safety reasons, said she traveled from the suburbs early Thursday morning to attend. “This is our battle, this started with the president demonizing the Somali community,” she said. “Renee was protecting her neighbors and standing for us all. It’s upon us to show the support of the community.” A Fire Department official picked up on the sentiment of the crowd after installing the cones and tape along the road. “As you keep saying, these are our streets, so let’s keep it safe for everybody,” he said. An unexpected structure appeared at one corner of the block: a yurt. The Twin Cities-based Autonomous Yurts Union brought it after community members asked for shelter from the rain while guarding the barricades. Alex Johnson, a volunteer with the group, said they arrived with the yurt around 4 p.m. the previous day. It was removed overnight along with the barricades. AYU, which has previously supplied yurts to homeless encampments across the city, said it anticipated the city might remove it. Johnson said it probably cost the city more to take it down than it did to build the yurt. “It was mildly disappointing, as it always is to lose a yurt, but it’s why we do it the way we do it," he said. "We’re happy to put in the energy, resources, and labour despite the outcome.” If barricades go up again and people need shelter, he said, the group is prepared to return with another yurt. Correction: An earlier quote from Jonathan McGee on a memorial on Portland Avenue has been updated. READ MORE St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Sponsored Content The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: ICE shooting , Minneapolis , Minneapolis Police Department , Renee Good Shubhanjana Das sdas@sahanjournal.com Shubhanjana Das is a reporter at Sahan Journal. She is a journalist from India and previously worked as a reporting fellow at Sahan before stepping into her current role. Before moving to the U.S., she... More by Shubhanjana Das Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close