MnDot seeks public comment on Olson Memorial Highway project Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ENVIRONMENT Fewer lanes, increased safety wanted along Olson Memorial Highway as MnDOT plans redevelopment Olson Memorial Highway tore through a hub of Black and Jewish community life in the 1940s to give suburban commuters access to downtown Minneapolis. Organizers want to see the state go big on a new project to redevelop the road. by Andrew Hazzard July 27, 2023 July 28, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Olson Memorial Highway, also known as Highway 55, looking eastward with downtown Minneapolis in the background on July 27, 2023. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The Minnesota Department of Transportation is launching a project to reconstruct Olson Memorial Highway that community groups say is an opportunity to create a safer and more vibrant corridor in north Minneapolis. MnDOT tentatively plans to reconstruct Olson Memorial Highway, or Highway 55, in 2028 between Border Avenue and Thomas Avenue, from downtown Minneapolis to the edge of Theodore Wirth Regional Park. The six- to eight-lane highway that connects Minneapolis to the northwest suburbs is a safety concern due to frequent crashes. The highway was built in the early 1940s, and replaced 6th Avenue North, which was a cultural hub of early Black life on the near North Side. Many homes and businesses in the then-Black and Jewish communities were destroyed to make way for the highway, which was replicated by the construction of Interstates 35W and 94 in the 1960s. Today, the highway cuts through the Harrison Neighborhood. The area is diverse; 80 percent of nearby residents are people of color, according to state data. The surrounding area is home to residents who are disproportionately younger and have lower incomes than other parts of Minneapolis. The 55411 zip code along the highway also has some of the highest asthma rates in the state . The highway crosses over Interstate 94 just outside of downtown Minneapolis, and is accessible from the interstate via exit and entrance ramps. MnDOT is soliciting community ideas to shape design alternatives for the project, which is in its early stages. Proposed designs will be released this fall. “We want to hear from everyone, but in particular we want to hear from people who live in the area,” said Jesse Johnson, project spokesperson for MnDOT. Residents can fill out a survey by August 1 to share their thoughts . The survey is available in English, Hmong, Karen, Somali, and Spanish. Safety first Residents attending a July 24 open house about the project in the basement of Sumner Library, one of the only historic buildings to survive the highway’s construction, said they want to see safety improvements. MissCandi Martin, a librarian, said she wants a safer street that is easier to cross on foot. She recalled watching a child and elderly man attempting to cross the highway to reach the library. They struggled, and needed help from passersby to make it across, she said. She knows many drivers use the highway, but sees the need for a lane reduction or other improvements to help pedestrians. Hibo Haid, a North Side resident who attended the meeting with her young daughter, knows people who have been involved in vehicle crashes on Olson Memorial Highway, and said in particular that its intersection with Interstate 94 is an issue. “I feel like there’s changes that need to be made,” Hibo said. Olson Memorial Highway, also known as Highway 55, in Minneapolis on July 27, 2023. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Hibo is correct, according to state and city safety data. Olson Memorial Highway is one of the most dangerous streets in Minneapolis, according to a 2022 study by the city. The roadway is considered a “high injury street” by city public works. The city’s 2018 crash study identified the intersection of Olson Memorial Highway and Interstate 94 as the site of the most car crashes in Minneapolis. There were 39 crashes involving pedestrians or cyclists in the project area in the past decade; 13 were fatal or resulted in severe injury, according to MnDOT. There were 949 total crashes resulting in 377 injuries and 10 deaths along the highway in the last 10 years. “We know crashes are a problem,” said project manager Mike Samuelson. The highway has a speed limit of 40 miles an hour, but 85 percent of cars travel up to 50 miles an hour, MnDOT data show. That increases safety risks, as crashes are deadlier at higher speeds. While the highway was built to help suburban commuters reach downtown Minneapolis, its use has largely shifted. The construction of Interstate 394 in the 1990s redirected west metro traffic into downtown. Olson Memorial Highway averages 15,000 vehicles per day, fewer than many city and county roads in Minneapolis. Most trips on the road today are local and shorter than two miles, according to MnDOT. Community vision Local organizations have pressured the state to take bold actions to address the harms caused by building Olson Memorial Highway, and to institute changes to create a vibrant, neighborhood street. The Harrison Neighborhood Association and Our Streets Minneapolis, a pedestrian and bike advocacy group, launched the “Bring Back 6th” campaign in 2021 . Their vision imagines a boulevard space with dedicated transit and bicycle lanes, better pedestrian infrastructure, and fewer car lanes. They also want to use the wide roadway to build public housing and community-owned commercial spaces. “This project really is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” said Alex Burns, advocacy and policy manager for Our Streets. Olson Memorial Highway, also known as Highway 55, in Minneapolis on July 27, 2023. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal The groups have done extensive outreach in the community to get feedback on their vision, and say residents have responded favorably. Our Streets said they have knocked on 20,000 doors near the project area. Many want to see big, broad changes made, according to Raquel Sidie-Wagner, community engagement specialist with Our Streets. “Folks feel that the North Side deserves more investment from the city and the state,” she said. The Minneapolis City Council unanimously approved a resolution in May calling for MnDOT to embrace the Bring Back 6th campaign’s proposal. Short term improvements MnDOT has experimented with temporary safety improvements along the project area. Traffic cones were installed on the highway to block off a lane in each direction over the summer of 2022, an effort that is being replicated this year. The goal of that work is to make it easier for pedestrians to cross the street and reduce vehicle speeds, according to MnDOT. RELATED STORIES &#8216;Bring Back 6th' launches campaign to reverse 80 years of Twin Cities history, and restore communities demolished to make way for Olson Memorial Highway. Proposals to add more car lanes to I-94 draw ire of city leaders, public as MnDOT presents 10 options for redevelopment Marvin Roger Anderson was displaced from St. Paul’s historically Black Rondo Neighborhood as a child when Interstate 94 was constructed. Now in his 80s, he sees promise in a plan to reconnect the area.￼ MnDOT will resurface part of the project area this year to make those changes more visible, according to a letter that MnDOT west area manager Mark Lindeberg sent to advocates for safety improvements. Our Streets and Harrison Neighborhood Association are urging the state to use that resurfacing to implement more temporary improvements for pedestrians at all intersections. They also want the speed limit reduced to 25 mph and dedicated bus lanes. “We have some serious concerns that they’re not listening to the community, and not doing what they could,” Burns said. How to share your thoughts about redeveloping Olson Memorial Highway: Residents can fill out a survey by August 1 . The survey is available in English, Hmong, Karen, Somali, and Spanish. Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Andrew Hazzard ahazzard@sahanjournal.com x Andrew Hazzard is a reporter with Sahan Journal who focuses on climate change and environmental justice issues. After starting his career in daily newspapers in Mississippi and North Dakota, Andrew returned... More by Andrew Hazzard Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close