U.S. House Speaker Johnson bans trans women from women’s bathrooms at the Capitol &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 15:32 republished DC Bureau U.S. House Speaker Johnson bans trans women from women’s bathrooms at the Capitol By Jacob Fischler - November 20, 2024 3:32 pm Speaker of the House Mike Johnson, R-La., on Wednesday issued an order banning transgender women from using women's bathrooms in some parts of the U.S. Capitol. In this photo, Johnson, right, answers questions during a press conference with Republican leadership on Capitol Hill on Sept. 18, 2024 in Washington, D.C. At left is Rep. Zach Nunn, R-Iowa. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Transgender women will not be permitted to use women’s restrooms in parts of the U.S. Capitol complex, House Speaker Mike Johnson said Wednesday, following some House Republicans’ targeting of the first openly trans person to win a congressional election. The three-sentence Johnson statement said public, single-sex facilities could be used only by “individuals of that biological sex.” It did not mention how the directive would be enforced. “All single-sex facilities in the Capitol and House Office Buildings — such as restrooms, changing rooms, and locker rooms — are reserved for individuals of that biological sex,” Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, said. “It is important to note that each Member office has its own private restroom, and unisex restrooms are available throughout the Capitol. Women deserve women’s only spaces,” he said, highlighting his objection to identifying trans women according to their gender identity. There was no immediate reaction from most House Democrats, including leadership, but Rep. Mark Pocan questioned how the order would be policed. “Will the Sergeant at Arms post officers in bathrooms?” asked Pocan, a Wisconsin Democrat, in a statement to States Newsroom. “Will everyone who works at the Capitol have to carry around their birth certificate or undergo a genetic test? This policy isn’t going to protect anyone—but it is going to open the door to rampant abuse, harassment, and discrimination in the Capitol.” Delaware lawmaker The order is a response to the election this month of Rep.-elect Sarah McBride, a Delaware Democrat who will become the first openly trans member of Congress. As Congress returned to Washington this week, a vocal portion of the House Republican Conference objected to McBride’s gender identity and asked Johnson to constrict her bathroom usage. South Carolina’s Nancy Mace introduced a resolution Monday with similar language to Johnson’s order. She made clear in social media posts and interviews she was targeting McBride . “This is a person who’s threatened to come into women’s private spaces,” Mace said on Fox News Tuesday night. “I’m a survivor of rape, sexual violence and abuse and I know how deeply vulnerable women are in places where we feel we have a right to privacy.” While opponents of trans rights often argue that letting trans women access women’s bathrooms puts cis women at risk, there is no evidence to suggest such access increases incidence of sexual assault. A 2019 Harvard University study found that barring trans teens from bathrooms that conform with their gender identity increased the likelihood of sexual assault of trans people. McBride disagrees but will comply In a Wednesday statement, McBride said she would comply with the order even though she disagrees with it. The statement continued McBride’s messaging on the issue that it reflected a misplaced focus by House Republicans on wedge issues that don’t meaningfully impact people’s lives. “I’m not here to fight about bathrooms. I’m here to fight for Delawareans and to bring down costs facing families,” she wrote. “This effort to distract from the real issues facing this country hasn’t distracted me over the last several days.” As the tumult at the Capitol gained attention Tuesday, House Democrats, reportedly with input from McBride, also framed it as a distraction. In a short X thread on Monday, McBride called the GOP efforts “a blatant distraction from the fact that they have no real solutions to what Americans are facing” and said she would continue to focus on “making the American dream more affordable and accessible.” House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries, a New York Democrat, said in brief comments at a Tuesday press conference that Republicans were trying to“bully” McBride. Day of Remembrance In a statement, former Houston Mayor Annise Parker, who leads the advocacy group LGBTQ+ Victory Institute, called Johnson’s order and Mace’s resolution “bigoted and transphobic policies at the Capitol” and noted Wednesday was Transgender Day of Remembrance. “Announcing an ill-conceived anti-trans policy, on Transgender Day of Remembrance no less, not only serves to cause more distraction and division but is a harmful stunt with real impact,” she said. “This policy will harm many dedicated employees who work in the Capitol and is short-sided and dangerous.” Some Democrats did post messages of support for Transgender Day of Remembrance that alluded to discrimination within the halls of Congress. In a thread opposing a separate bill, the Equality Caucus’ X account said Republicans were “focusing on attacking the queer community.” “Their obsession with performative stunts over actual solutions hurts Americans &#038; benefits no one,” one post read. X Republish Post U.S. House Speaker Johnson bans trans women from women’s bathrooms at the Capitol by Jacob Fischler, Minnesota Reformer November 20, 2024 U.S. House Speaker Johnson bans trans women from women’s bathrooms at the Capitol by Jacob Fischler, Minnesota Reformer November 20, 2024 Transgender women will not be permitted to use women’s restrooms in parts of the U.S. Capitol complex, House Speaker Mike Johnson said Wednesday, following some House Republicans’ targeting of the first openly trans person to win a congressional election. The three-sentence Johnson statement said public, single-sex facilities could be used only by “individuals of that biological sex.” It did not mention how the directive would be enforced. “All single-sex facilities in the Capitol and House Office Buildings — such as restrooms, changing rooms, and locker rooms — are reserved for individuals of that biological sex,” Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, said. “It is important to note that each Member office has its own private restroom, and unisex restrooms are available throughout the Capitol. Women deserve women’s only spaces,” he said, highlighting his objection to identifying trans women according to their gender identity. There was no immediate reaction from most House Democrats, including leadership, but Rep. Mark Pocan questioned how the order would be policed. “Will the Sergeant at Arms post officers in bathrooms?” asked Pocan, a Wisconsin Democrat, in a statement to States Newsroom. “Will everyone who works at the Capitol have to carry around their birth certificate or undergo a genetic test? This policy isn’t going to protect anyone—but it is going to open the door to rampant abuse, harassment, and discrimination in the Capitol.” Delaware lawmaker The order is a response to the election this month of Rep.-elect Sarah McBride, a Delaware Democrat who will become the first openly trans member of Congress. As Congress returned to Washington this week, a vocal portion of the House Republican Conference objected to McBride’s gender identity and asked Johnson to constrict her bathroom usage. South Carolina’s Nancy Mace introduced a resolution Monday with similar language to Johnson’s order. She made clear in social media posts and interviews she was targeting McBride . “This is a person who’s threatened to come into women’s private spaces,” Mace said on Fox News Tuesday night. “I’m a survivor of rape, sexual violence and abuse and I know how deeply vulnerable women are in places where we feel we have a right to privacy.” While opponents of trans rights often argue that letting trans women access women’s bathrooms puts cis women at risk, there is no evidence to suggest such access increases incidence of sexual assault. A 2019 Harvard University study found that barring trans teens from bathrooms that conform with their gender identity increased the likelihood of sexual assault of trans people. McBride disagrees but will comply In a Wednesday statement, McBride said she would comply with the order even though she disagrees with it. The statement continued McBride’s messaging on the issue that it reflected a misplaced focus by House Republicans on wedge issues that don’t meaningfully impact people’s lives. “I’m not here to fight about bathrooms. I’m here to fight for Delawareans and to bring down costs facing families,” she wrote. “This effort to distract from the real issues facing this country hasn’t distracted me over the last several days.” As the tumult at the Capitol gained attention Tuesday, House Democrats, reportedly with input from McBride, also framed it as a distraction. In a short X thread on Monday, McBride called the GOP efforts “a blatant distraction from the fact that they have no real solutions to what Americans are facing” and said she would continue to focus on “making the American dream more affordable and accessible.” House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries, a New York Democrat, said in brief comments at a Tuesday press conference that Republicans were trying to“bully” McBride. Day of Remembrance In a statement, former Houston Mayor Annise Parker, who leads the advocacy group LGBTQ+ Victory Institute, called Johnson’s order and Mace’s resolution “bigoted and transphobic policies at the Capitol” and noted Wednesday was Transgender Day of Remembrance. “Announcing an ill-conceived anti-trans policy, on Transgender Day of Remembrance no less, not only serves to cause more distraction and division but is a harmful stunt with real impact,” she said. “This policy will harm many dedicated employees who work in the Capitol and is short-sided and dangerous.” Some Democrats did post messages of support for Transgender Day of Remembrance that alluded to discrimination within the halls of Congress. In a thread opposing a separate bill, the Equality Caucus’ X account said Republicans were “focusing on attacking the queer community.” “Their obsession with performative stunts over actual solutions hurts Americans &#038; benefits no one,” one post read. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Jacob Fischler Jacob covers federal policy and helps direct national coverage as deputy Washington bureau chief for States Newsroom. Based in Oregon, he focuses on Western issues. His coverage areas include climate, energy development, public lands and infrastructure. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Black women quickly mobilize to boost Kamala Harris presidential bid by Ariana Figueroa August 19, 2024 U.S. House panels review ‘startling’ allegations at Bureau of Indian Education university by Shauneen Miranda July 24, 2024 Democratic women in U.S. Senate target Project 2025 on reproductive rights by Lia Chien June 20, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.