Two years later, Adam Johnson’s loved ones reflect on his impact and legacy - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Two years later, Adam Johnson’s loved ones reflect on his impact and legacy Mary Skorich WDIO --> Two years later, Adam Johnson's loved ones reflect on his impact and legacy Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Adam Johnson made a name for himself not only across the Northland, but the world. His hockey career began at Hibbing High School, before he joined the University of Minnesota Duluth Bulldogs from 2015 to 2017. Adam made his NHL debut with the Pittsburg Penguins on March 21, 2019. Adam died after an on-ice collision during a Nottingham Panthers game in October of 2023. The community rallied around Adam's family following his death. From Hibbing/Chisholm boy's hockey wearing special patches on their jerseys, to UMD men's hockey hosting the Adam Johnson Memorial night, the community made sure Adam's life and legacy would not be forgotten. “It makes me feel very proud," said Ebony Johnson, Adam's sister-in-law. For Ebony, Adam's brother Ryan, and their two kids, keeping Adam in their memories is top priority. “He was such a simple person. He loved fishing. He loved working out on the house. He loved doing things around the yard and really spending time with his niece and nephew, his grandparents, his mom, his fiancé," said Ebony. "So as big of a name as he is and he was, he really was just this modest, laid-back, easygoing. I mean, we would see him and to us, it's just&#8211; he's just Adam.” Adam's niece and nephew, seven-year-old Grant and five-year-old Britta, remember their uncle fondly. “I like because of Uncle because I like to see his smile. Yeah, we love Uncle Smile. When he, when we say funny things and then he smiles," said Britta. Before every hockey game he plays in, Grant tells his mom that he wants to be "fast like Uncle," and "strong like Uncle." “It's really cool to see the whole situation almost from like a children's point of view. Because instead of it being, you know, this tragedy, it just became more of like a positive fuel for him," said Ebony. The family still finds ways to see Adam in their everyday lives. "The kids always make the connection between rainbows and eagles when it comes to Uncle. And we were leaving Grant's birthday party in the cities and all of a sudden, we were pulling out of there and we all looked to our left and there's just seven eagles sudden, in the tree right on his birthday,” said Ebony. “I remember when my balloon flied up, up, and then it got to Uncle," said Britta. "And then he sent a butterfly to me.” The Adam Johnson Memorial Fund was established to help support the passions and interests that Adam valued the most, to donate, click here . For Related Stories: Adam Johnson Mary Skorich NHL UMD Men's Hockey --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed