Tribal leaders applaud VP-nominee Walz’s work with tribal nation Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in POLITICS Tribal leaders weigh in on VP nominee Tim Walz’s commitment to tribal-state relations by Melissa Olson August 22, 2024 August 22, 2024 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Gov. Tim Walz and Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan join an Indigenous Peoples Day Sunrise Ceremony at Bde Maka Ska in Minneapolis. Credit: Kerem Yücel | MPR News Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW This story comes to you from MPR News through a partnership with Sahan Journal . Two weeks have passed since presidential nominee Kamala Harris, the current vice president, chose Gov. Tim Walz as her running mate. Leading up to the pick, elected tribal leaders across Minnesota voiced their support of Walz as choice for VP in a letter to the Harris campaign. Leadership from all 11 tribal nations in the state signed the letter of support, citing Walz’s commitment to tribal-state relations. President of Lower Sioux Indian Community Robert Larsen signed the letter. He says the biggest change in tribal-state relations over the past several years has been access to decision-makers. RELATED STORIES VP nominee Tim Walz praised for advancing policies for communities of color, immigrants Who is Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan? A ‘hard-nosed’ negotiator fighting for Minnesota kids “When it comes to certain things, you’re able to go to the top of the agency,” said Larsen. Governors going back to Jesse Ventura have issued executive orders affirming the government-to-government relationship. In 2019, Walz issued an order directing all state agencies to consult with tribes. COVID-19 was a major test of tribal-state relations during the Walz administration . Early in the pandemic, tribal leaders set up a daily phone call with one another to talk about their emergency response. Robert Larsen, tribal chair of Lower Sioux Indian Community, said the land transfer was made possible by his ancestors and past tribal leadership who paved the way for the Dakota people to reclaim their homeland. Credit: Hannah Yang | MPR News “The governor, the state, heard about that &#8230; and they started going on those calls and subsequently, from that, we have a weekly call. It originally was from the governor’s office. Now it’s the state call with different commissioners on there each week,” said Larsen. During the pandemic, tribal leaders made response decisions in keeping with their own laws. They decided whether to close schools and businesses or issue their own stay-at-home orders. Tribal leaders also started drafting legislation requiring the state to consult with them on matters affecting tribal nations. “We pushed that in the Legislature &#8230; the state was busy doing their thing with COVID,” said Larsen. “Lo and behold, we got it done. The governor signed it.” The 2021 law takes the spirit of Walz’s executive order and requires agencies to appoint tribal-state liaisons and mandates state agency employees to attend training. Red Lake Nation Tribal Secretary Sam Strong speaks outside the NativeCare dispensary at the Red Lake Nation. Credit: Mathew Holding Eagle III | MPR News Red Lake Nation secretary Sam Strong added his name to the letter in support of Walz. Strong says Walz’s choice of White Earth Nation citizen Peggy Flanagan as lieutenant governor has had a big impact on tribal-state relations. “The most important partnership he ever had was with the lieutenant governor and having her be a voice for tribal nations and voice for the state. Because she doesn’t just represent tribal nations, but she is a tribal nation citizen,” said Strong. The connection between Walz and Lt. Gov. Flanagan dates to Flanagan’s work training Walz for his first run for Congress. Flanagan worked as a candidate trainer at Camp Wellstone — a program of Wellstone Action, an organization founded by the late Senator Paul Wellstone. Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan speaks during a ceremony at Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig School on the Leech Lake reservation. Credit: Erica Dischino | MPR News Key legislation, appointments Tribal leaders say Walz earned their support by passing legislation aimed well-being of Indigenous people, including the restoration of 2 acres of land to the Upper Sioux Community ; a bill aimed at removing mascots from Minnesota schools; an education bill that included “Indigenous Education for All” ; and others aimed at increasing protections for Indian children and Indigenous people who are murdered or go missing. The letter also applauds Walz for the “historic number of Native people appointed to key leadership positions.” This summer, Walz shook up the state’s racetrack commission appointing two former tribal leaders to its ranks . Last year, Walz appointed former tribal chairperson of the Prairie Island Sioux Community to the commission tasked with redesigning the state flag. In 2022, Walz appointed attorney Tadd Johnson to the University of Minnesota Board of Regents , the first Native American to be appointed to the board since it was established more than a century and a half ago. Minnesota state and Upper Sioux tribal officials greet community members after a ceremony transferring land back to the Upper Sioux Community near Granite Falls, on March 15. Credit: Ben Hovland | MPR News ‘Moments of disagreement and difference’ The letter of support for Walz also pointed to “moments of disagreement and difference.” The letter is silent on tribal nations’ opposition to the reconstruction of Enbridge's Line 3. Enbridge operates six pipelines carrying millions of barrels of Canadian oil across the northern part of the state. The network of pipelines crosses waterways full of wild rice, a dietary and cultural mainstay of Ojibwe life. White Earth Nation chair Michael Fairbanks opposed the pipeline. “We did what we could with our legal department and exhausted everything we could to halt this project coming through northern Minnesota,” said Fairbanks. The pipeline passes just north of White Earth Nation’s lands. "I feel like there could have been something little more that could have been done to halt this pipeline,” said Fairbanks. White Earth Nation Tribal chair Michael Fairbanks outside the tribal dispensary in Mahnomen on the first day of recreational marijuana sales. Credit: Mathew Holding Eagle III | MPR News According to previous MPR News reporting, Walz maintained it was not his role to stay permits for Line 3. Larsen says despite differences, Walz has been a good partner. “The tribes can be as big or a bigger ally than they’ve been an opponent, and I believe this administration has heard that, understood it and worked with us,” he said. Last year, Walz became the first governor in state history to visit all 11 tribal nations . READ MORE Could Trump use Driver’s License for All data for deportations? Minnesota officials say protections are in place as applications roll in. Inside Donald Trump’s immigration plans: mass deportations, tighter borders, workplace raids How will Trump’s win impact Minneapolis police reform plans? One scholar says it could put a stop to progress. Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Election 2024 , Governor Tim Walz , Indigenous , Lower Sioux Indian Community , Red Lake Nation Melissa Olson Melissa Olson (she/hers) is a writer and a freelance journalist. Most recently, she was Deputy Director of MIGIZI Communications, a non-profit serving American Indian Youth in Minneapolis, and was the... More by Melissa Olson Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close