U of M appoints first immigrant, person of color as dean at Humphrey School Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in EDUCATION University of Minnesota appoints its first immigrant, person of color as dean at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs An immigrant from Jamaica and former administrator at Georgia Tech, Dr. Nisha Botchwey brings her expertise in health, environment, youth engagement, and equity to the Humphrey School dean’s office. “The education that the Humphrey School provides allows for the elevation of a little Black girl like me,” Botchwey says. by Hibah Ansari September 22, 2021 September 22, 2021 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Dr. Nisha Botchwey, a health and environmental policy expert, is the first immigrant appointed dean at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs. Credit: Humphrey School of Public Affairs Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The University of Minnesota has appointed the first person of color and immigrant as dean of the Humphrey School of Public Affairs. Dr. Nisha Botchwey is an expert in health policy and the environment, with a focus on youth engagement and health equity. She will serve as the school’s chief executive and academic officer. Botchwey holds a master’s degree and Ph.D. in urban planning from the University of Pennsylvania. She also has a master’s degree in public health from the University of Virginia, and a bachelor’s degree in environmental science and public policy from Harvard University. “I have family and friends around the globe,” said Botchwey, who is an immigrant from Jamaica. “What they see in me as the incoming dean of the Humphrey School is their sister, their cousin, their niece, their friend, their auntie. And they are able to say, Nisha’s there, then I can be there too. ” Botchwey succeeds Laura Bloomberg , who took on the role of vice president and provost at Cleveland State University earlier this month. Bloomberg had been dean since 2017. Catherine Squires, the Humphrey School’s associate dean and a communications professor, will serve as interim dean until Botchwey officially starts in January. “She brings an important range of experience both as a researcher but also as an administrator,” Squires said of Botchwey. “She has really great ideas about connecting Humphrey to the bigger community.” While Botchwey is the school’s first officially appointed immigrant dean of color, Squires, who is also a woman of color, has been the interim dean since August 23. The Humphrey School offers more than 150 graduate courses and funds 116 faculty research projects. According to the school , the program has 369 graduate students currently enrolled and 35 Ph.D. students. Almost 24 percent of graduate students enrolled this year are students of color from the United States, and 8 percent are international students. Additionally, 30 percent of 40 tenured faculty members are people of color. The school employs 115 employees overall, 24 percent of whom are people of color. Squires noted that during the selection process, two of the finalists for dean were women of color and all three were women. Squires said she sees that as a promising sign for new leaders in academia. Catapulting to the dean’s office Botchwey previously served as an associate dean for academic programs at Georgia Tech and played a lead role in the university’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. She developed academic programs, oversaw curriculum, led outreach efforts, and served as a tenured faculty member in the School of City and Regional Planning. Over the course of her career , Botchwey has been awarded more than $16 million in research grants on more than 30 projects. One of those projects was in partnership with the University of Minnesota. From 2015 to 2021, Botchwey has been the co-investigator on infrastructure solutions for environmentally sustainable, healthy, and livable cities. Funded by the National Science Foundation, the project received about $3 million in funding. In 2017, Botchwey also presented twice at the University of Minnesota on educating K–12 science and social studies teachers, as well as on theories of change and integrative modeling. As a first-generation college graduate, Botchwey said she entered a career in public service because she wanted to better understand the rules that govern daily life—and how to make them more fair. She said the legacy of the Humphrey School fits that vision. “The education that the Humphrey School provides allows for the elevation of a little Black girl like me—who started school in ESL classes in Miami, Florida—to catapult to the dean’s office at the Humphrey School.” Training the next generation of leaders The Humphrey School of Public Affairs was named after former Vice President Hubert Humphrey who served under President Lyndon Johnson. Saint Paul Mayor Melvin Carter also attended the school * . U.S. News & World Report ranked the Humphrey School 9 th in the country’s top public affairs programs. Ed Goetz is the director of the Center for Urban and Regional Affairs and a faculty member of the Humphrey School. He attended a presentation Botchwey gave as part of the interview process. Goetz said he was particularly impressed by Botchwey’s ideas for the direction of the school, especially when it came to diversity, equity, and inclusion. “We’re constantly being pushed and reminded by students to center equity in the work we do and in the way we help educate and train the next generation of leaders,” Goetz said. “She was very responsive to that and spoke about equity work in a very knowledgeable, sophisticated way.” While the Humphrey School has a national and global network, Botchwey said she hopes the school can also expand its connections within the local community. “It’s hard to serve when you have to take a plane there. It’s easier to serve when you can walk right outside your door,” she said. “Why not allow our students that opportunity to practice that service and to enrich the lives of the people that they are immediately connected to?” * Correction: This story has been changed to note that the University of Minnesota named its public policy school, founded in 1977, after Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Vice President Walter Mondale taught at the school, but did not attend it. Also, St. Paul mayor Melvin Carter attended the Humphrey school—not R.T. Rybak, as previously written. Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Humphrey School of Public Affairs , Nisha Botchwey , University of Minnesota Hibah Ansari hansari@sahanjournal.com x linkedin Hibah Ansari was a reporter for Sahan Journal covering immigration and politics. She was named the 2022 Young Journalist of the Year by the Minnesota Society of Professional Journalists. She’s a graduate... More by Hibah Ansari Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close