Eagan police arrested their own Mayor Mike Maguire for driving drunk &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 13:15 Brief Government & Politics The Potluck Eagan police arrested their own Mayor Mike Maguire for driving drunk By Ricardo Lopez - January 21, 2020 1:15 pm Eagan Mayor Mike Maguire / Source: City of Eagan Is there something about the winter doldrums of January that compels Minnesota mayors to drive drunk? Eagan police arrested their city’s mayor, Michael John Maguire, 52, on Jan. 11 after responding to reports that his sport-utility vehicle was stuck in a snowbank near the intersection of Dakota Path and Shadow Creek Curve, KARE 11 reported Monday . That makes Maguire the third Minnesota mayor in a year to be arrested for allegedly driving under the influence. He is joined by New Brighton Mayor Val Johnson, who was arrested Jan. 19, 2019 for driving while intoxicated, apologizing a few days later. She later pled guilty and remains mayor of the northern Twin Cities suburb. Nine days before Johnson’s arrest, former Rice Mayor Erik Bonde was arrested after police found him sitting in the driver's seat of a school bus with an open container. The next day, Jan. 11. Benton County Sheriff Troy Heck issued a press release outlining the details of his arrest, raising questions about why Eagan police didn’t do the same. Former Crystal City councilman Jeff Kolb questioned in a tweet why Eagan Police didn't send out a news release to inform the public: If you arrest a member of your governing body you owe it to the public to over communicate. The Jan. 15 complaint alleges Maguire had a blood alcohol content of .19 , more than twice the legal limit to drive. Eagan police spokesman, Officer Aaron Machtemes, said in an email that "it has not been the practice for the police department to send press releases out for arrests of celebrities or public officials unless other factors were at play. He said press releases are typically issued if an incident occurs that threaten's the public safety or the department needs help identifying suspects. He added that the Hastings city attorney is handling the case to avoid a conflict of interest. Long story made short: Mayors (and everyone else), call an Uber. Call a friend. X Republish Post Eagan police arrested their own Mayor Mike Maguire for driving drunk by Ricardo Lopez, Minnesota Reformer January 21, 2020 Eagan police arrested their own Mayor Mike Maguire for driving drunk by Ricardo Lopez, Minnesota Reformer January 21, 2020 Is there something about the winter doldrums of January that compels Minnesota mayors to drive drunk? Eagan police arrested their city’s mayor, Michael John Maguire, 52, on Jan. 11 after responding to reports that his sport-utility vehicle was stuck in a snowbank near the intersection of Dakota Path and Shadow Creek Curve, KARE 11 reported Monday . That makes Maguire the third Minnesota mayor in a year to be arrested for allegedly driving under the influence. He is joined by New Brighton Mayor Val Johnson, who was arrested Jan. 19, 2019 for driving while intoxicated, apologizing a few days later. She later pled guilty and remains mayor of the northern Twin Cities suburb. Nine days before Johnson’s arrest, former Rice Mayor Erik Bonde was arrested after police found him sitting in the driver's seat of a school bus with an open container. The next day, Jan. 11. Benton County Sheriff Troy Heck issued a press release outlining the details of his arrest, raising questions about why Eagan police didn’t do the same. Former Crystal City councilman Jeff Kolb questioned in a tweet why Eagan Police didn't send out a news release to inform the public: If you arrest a member of your governing body you owe it to the public to over communicate. The Jan. 15 complaint alleges Maguire had a blood alcohol content of .19 , more than twice the legal limit to drive. Eagan police spokesman, Officer Aaron Machtemes, said in an email that "it has not been the practice for the police department to send press releases out for arrests of celebrities or public officials unless other factors were at play. He said press releases are typically issued if an incident occurs that threaten's the public safety or the department needs help identifying suspects. He added that the Hastings city attorney is handling the case to avoid a conflict of interest. Long story made short: Mayors (and everyone else), call an Uber. Call a friend. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Ricardo Lopez Ricardo Lopez was a senior political reporter for the Reformer. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Best of frenemies: Mike Lindell in the Reformer over the years by Ria Gupta July 28, 2026 Angie Craig defends immigration vote in the face of Democrats' fury over Operation Metro Surge by Max Nesterak July 27, 2026 Police: Rep. Walter Hudson was armed, intoxicated with Engen during DUI stop by Michelle Griffith March 30, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.