St. Louis County Board establishes maximum property tax levy - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local St. Louis County Board establishes maximum property tax levy The 6.25%, or $12.67 million, increase was finalized during the board's Tuesday meeting at the Cook Community Center. St. Louis County logo is displayed on the front of the county board's dais. Peter Passi / Duluth Media Group file photo By Jake Przytarski September 22, 2026 at 5:02 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? COOK — The St. Louis County Board of Commissioners officially capped the 2027 maximum property tax levy increase at 6.25%, or $12.67 million, during its Tuesday meeting at the Cook Community Center. The board will hold its final vote on both the 2027 budget and levy at its Dec. 15 meeting. The levy, set at approximately $215 million, is the portion of the budget funded through property taxes. ADVERTISEMENT The approved 6.25% levy hike represents less than half of the 12.4% increase in 2026, which raised the county levy to $202.7 million out of an overall $564.6 million budget. County officials anticipate that a 7% growth in the property tax base will help soften the financial burden on individual property owners. Overall, the tax base benefited from a record-setting $337 million in new construction in 2026. also read St. Louis County Board delays Greenwood boundary hearing 3d ago Candidates spar in St. Louis County Board race 6d ago St. Louis County Board caps tax levy increase at 6.3% Sep 10 Because the levy is spread over an expanded tax base, the levy increase is unlikely to result in a 6.25% tax increase for every individual property owner. Commissioners can reduce the levy as they continue working on the budget, but they cannot increase it. As a whole, the county's estimated market value expanded by $1.89 billion. The most substantial gain occurred in residential and seasonal residential properties, which rose by a combined $1.3 billion. St. Louis County is enacting budget cuts to absorb $12.1 million in escalating operational costs and maintain the 6.25% cap on the levy increase. The cost-reduction efforts include eliminating or reassigning 31 positions across multiple county divisions, including Extension, the auditor’s office and veterans services. Staff from the Public Health and Human Services department were also reassigned to updated roles to address rising workload demands stemming from new state and federal mandates. ADVERTISEMENT In addition, the board approved the strategic use of fund balance reserves for specific expenses to help limit the levy growth. The county is further controlling expenses by deferring several purchases and capital initiatives. The postponements encompass facility remodeling and maintenance, along with scheduled investments in software, IT hardware and fleet vehicles. The proposed levy includes a 32% share — $68 million — devoted to public safety investments, including seven new positions in the Sheriff's Office for deputies, 911 dispatch staff and jail corrections officers. Additionally, Public Health and Human Services accounts for 32% — $69.5 million — of the total maximum property levy. The department is undergoing restructuring to comply with federal SNAP eligibility requirements, align with the Minnesota African American Family Preservation Child Welfare Disproportionality Act and adapt to state cost shifts within the Long-Term Services and Supports disability waiver program. An additional 17% — $35.8 million — of the levy will go toward public works projects; a further 16% — $34.7 million — is allocated for general government spending; and 3% — $7 million — is devoted to debt service. Property owners will receive proposed tax statements in November showing estimated 2027 taxes based on the preliminary levy and their assessed property values. MORE FROM JAKE PRZYTARSKI Local Johnson, Kehr joust in District 8A candidate forum Incumbent Pete Johnson and challenger Allan Kehr II tackled a variety of local and statewide issues during Tuesday's forum. 5d ago &#183; By Jake Przytarski Subscribers Only Local Zeitgeist project puts unclaimed bikes back on Duluth streets Sep 26 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Subscribers Only Local Duluth author remains hopeful amid cancer return Sep 21 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local News Tribune recognizes 2026 Best of the Best winners Sep 17 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags ST. LOUIS COUNTY BOARD ST. LOUIS COUNTY By Jake Przytarski Jake Przytarski is a news reporter for the Duluth News Tribune covering St. Louis County, transportation and environmental issues. Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 7h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 12h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 7h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.