Minn. House passes tenants’ rights bill to protect vulnerable renters Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in HOUSING Minnesota House passes tenants’ rights bill to protect undocumented renters, domestic abuse survivors The bill would require landlords to accept taxpayer numbers from undocumented renters in place of Social Security numbers. by Katelyn Vue April 18, 2024 April 19, 2024 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Minnesota DFL Representative Esther Agbaje, co-author of the tenants' rights bill, debates a proposed amendment on the House floor on April 18, 2024. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW The Minnesota House of Representatives passed a tenants’ rights bill Thursday that would introduce significant protections for some of the state’s most vulnerable renters. The bill is aimed at helping undocumented immigrants, domestic violence survivors and people who rely on housing assistance, such as Section 8 vouchers. It’s also crafted to hold landlords more accountable by charging them penalty fees when they’re late opening newly constructed rental units to tenants who have already signed leases. The bill passed on a 68-61 vote, with the DFL majority pushing it through. Some Republicans argued that the bill was one-sided and would overpenalize landlords, especially mom-and-pop landlords who rent less than five units. “It’s a bill that’s going to hurt our housing provider industry,” said Republican Representative Brian Johnson, who opposed the bill. “It’s going to have the opposite effect of what you want to happen. It’s going to cause rent to go up.” The Senate passed a version of the bill last week. Undocumented renters get a boost One of the bill’s measures would require landlords to accept Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers when renters apply for a lease. The taxpayer numbers are issued to undocumented immigrants so they can file their taxes. Currently, landlords mostly accept Social Security numbers. Ryan Perez worked alongside organizers last fall to launch a campaign, Vida Digna (dignified life), to advocate for undocumented immigrants who don’t have a Social Security number. Landlords typically use a Social Security number to check a prospective tenant’s credit score before issuing a lease. Credit checks can also be accomplished with taxpayer numbers, which are issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to undocumented immigrants who aren’t eligible for a Social Security number. “We want to make sure that ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers) holders, who are inherently Minnesota taxpayers, are also getting access to opportunities that other Minnesota taxpayers have access to,” Perez said. related sTORIES Winter closes in on residents of St. Paul’s growing Randolph encampment Minnesota attorney general sues two homesellers for allegedly preying on Muslim buyers St. Paul crews move to clear Pig’s Eye encampment, leading to tense moments with volunteers Some landlords already accept taxpayer numbers, but it’s unclear how many. Perez said that some landlords the Vida Digna campaign spoke with were unsure if it was legal to use the taxpayer number. The measure would significantly affect many undocumented immigrants who live in rural areas, particularly south central Minnesota, where housing options are limited, said Perez, who is the leadership and organizing director of Communities Organizing Latine Power and Action. “Minnesota, as a state, should not care about what your federal immigration status is,” Perez said. “It's about further codifying what should be equal human rights for ITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers) holders.” Other organizations that worked on the Vida Digna campaign include Hispanic Advocacy and Community Empowerment through Research, Latino Economic Development Center, and LatinoLEAD. Tenants control repairs The bill would also allow tenants to repair their own units or hire help if their landlords haven’t resolved the issue within 14 days of receiving a written notice requesting repairs. Tenants would then supply their receipts to their landlords, and the cost would be deducted from their rent. The bill would also grant tenants the right to organize, distribute flyers and host meetings in an effort to improve conditions in their building. Protecting domestic abuse survivors The bill would clarify and update existing state housing laws, said Representative Esther Agbaje, DFL, who is the bill’s lead author in the House. Minnesota currently has a law that allows victims of domestic violence to terminate a lease early. But landlords often don’t accept a victim’s notice to end a lease if they’ve already fled, said Ann McFarland, an attorney for Standpoint, a legal advocacy group that works with domestic abuse survivors. The bill would require landlords to accept such notices even if tenants leave before filing the notice. The bill would also prevent landlords from filing an eviction notice against victims who terminate their leases early. “The updates that we made at this point will be very helpful for victims/survivors,” McFarland said. “We're hoping that … when a victim survivor needs to leave for safety, that it will make that process a little bit less stressful.” The Minnesota House of Representatives is set to vote on H.F. 3591, a bill which would reinforce tenant protections across Minnesota, on April 18, 2024. Credit: Aaron Nesheim | Sahan Journal Although the House and Senate bills share some similarities, the House version includes many measures that don’t appear in the Senate version. Some of those measures include prohibiting discrimination against individuals who use housing assistance, such as Section 8 vouchers, and new penalties for landlord violations. The differences between the two bills will be settled at a later date in conference committee. HOME Line, a nonprofit that provides free and low-cost services to renters, advocated for increasing penalties against landlords who violate housing laws. “I don't see it being a contentious conference committee,” Agbaje said of the process of melding the House and Senate versions into a single, final bill. “Once that gets all sorted out, we will come together and create the most robust tenants rights’ package that we can.” READ MORE St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Sponsored Content The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Sponsored content by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: domestic violence , Eviction , Minnesota Legislature , Section 8 , Tenant rights , Undocumented renters Katelyn Vue kvue@sahanjournal.com x Katelyn Vue is the immigration reporter for Sahan Journal. She graduated in May 2022 from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities. Prior to joining Sahan Journal, she was a metro reporting intern at the... More by Katelyn Vue Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close