Minn. group wants to build first Latino museum in Upper Midwest Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in NEWS PARTNERS Latino group kicks off $20M campaign to build museum in historic St. Paul neighborhood The Minnesota Latino Museum, which hopes to open by 2029, would be the first of its kind in the Upper Midwest. by Alex V. Cipolle | MPR January 22, 2025 January 22, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Minneapolis-based muralist Gustavo Lira García and Aaron Johnson-Ortiz, executive director of the Minnesota Latino Museum, during 2024 Día de los Muertos art activities at the Mall of America in Bloomington. Credit: Larry Lucio Jr. | Minnesota Latino Museum Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW This story comes to you from MPR News through a partnership with Sahan Journal . A coalition of Minnesota Latino organizations called the Minnesota Latino Leadership Alliance held a press conference at the capitol Jan. 14. The group was advocating for initiatives for the upcoming legislative session, one of which is the proposed Minnesota Latino Museum , which would be a center for Latino arts, culture and heritage. “We are looking to build the first museum that is focused on the Latino community in the upper Midwest,” executive director Aaron Johnson-Ortiz said. The museum, which has existed as an organization for several years, has launched a $20 million capital campaign to build and operate a physical space. The proposed location is the West Side Flats area of Harriet Island Regional Park in St. Paul. “Since at least 1928 there’s a historical record of people on the West Side wanting a Mexican and Latino Cultural Center,” Johnson-Ortiz said. “So this request goes back at least 100 years, and so we know that this work has been ongoing from multiple generations.” RELATED STORIES ‘Why couldn’t they just leave us alone?’: Pain of displacement from St. Paul’s West Side Flats lingers decades later Jessica Lopez Lyman, a University of Minnesota assistant professor of Chicano and Latino Studies, spoke about the proposed Minnesota Latino Museum at the state capitol on Jan. 14. Credit: Alex V. Cipolle | Minnesota Public Radio Jessica Lopez Lyman, an assistant professor of Chicano and Latino Studies at the University of Minnesota and a longtime advocate for the museum, also spoke. “We are excited for this museum to serve our entire state, to be a space to display, learn, teach and exchange ideas about our arts and culture,” Lopez Lyman said. She added that the museum would be in the historic St. Paul neighborhood “where the first Mexican immigrants established a barrio over a century ago, and later Chicano, Puerto Rican Boricua and other Latine people migrated to build community.” Lopez Lyman said that the museum has been a dream of hers since she was a kid, noting, however, that the community seeded the idea long before she was born, pointing to Luis Garzón, the first Latino person to permanently relocate to Minnesota in 1886. Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up Garzón, who is now buried in the Minneapolis Lakewood Cemetery, was an artist and musician who lived in the West Side Flats. “He created a store that functioned as a community center. People came to not only purchase dulces or ingredients they couldn't find anywhere else,” Lopez said, “But they also came for convivencia , to feel connected, to coexist with others after a long day on the railroad or working in the fields or cleaning houses. Garzón’s space, due to the people who interacted with it, became a space for arts and culture.” Johnson-Ortiz said the museum efforts began around 2015 with the local artist group ( Neo)Muralismos de México. They have hosted mural and art-making events and workshops around the state, from Duluth to Worthington. The museum building “is something that will likely take a couple years to develop, but that doesn’t mean that we’re not going to be doing activities and exhibits and public art,” said Johnson-Ortiz. In 2022, the museum group led the creation of the State Capitol’s first-ever ofrenda , or a traditional altar for the Mexican celebration of Día de los Muertos. He said this prompted Gov. Tim Walz to officially recognize Day of the Dead in Minnesota . Johnson-Ortiz, who is also a co-founder of the national group Mexican Cultural Arts Alliance, said that Minnesota is likely the first state to have done this. Johnson-Ortiz predicts if they meet their fundraising goals, the museum will open in 2029. Rep. María Isa Pérez-Vega, DFL-St. Paul, addresses the House Transportation Committee during a meeting at the State Capitol in St. Paul. Credit: Ben Hovland | Minnesota Public Radio In October 2023, Minnesota Rep. María Isa Pérez-Vega, DFL-St. Paul, stated her support for the museum at a press conference for National Latinx Heritage Month. “Latino artists have made significant contributions to Minnesota’s art and culture, but their work is often underrepresented in museums and galleries,” Pérez-Vega said in a statement. “We must establish Minnesota’s first Museum of Latino Arts to fill this gap and give Latino artists the recognition they deserve. Pa’Lante siempre!” In January 2024, Pérez-Vega sponsored a bill that would earmark $10 million to acquire property, design and construct the museum. Johnson-Ortiz said the museum secured $6.425 million in the proposed 2024 infrastructure package , but the bill failed to pass . He expects the museum bill will be reintroduced this session once the power struggle in the Legislature between Republicans and Democrats is resolved. Johnson-Ortiz, who is also an artist and muralist, said there are approximately 25 Latino-focused museums in the U.S. At last count in 2014, the Institute of Museum and Library Services estimated that there are 35,000 active museums in the U.S. According to census data, the Latino population is Minnesota’s third-largest demographic group. It has grown by more than 200,000 people in the last 25 years. “We feel that we’re not just behind in terms of culture representation, but radically behind,” said Johnson-Ortiz. “We’re behind the white community, and behind most communities of color in the United States. We feel that it’s time now to give voice to this, to tell our stories and to be part of the broader conversation in Minnesota about arts and culture, about history and how we fit in as a community with the broader society.” In February, the museum will announce its most ambitious programming yet, a months-long public art exhibition along the Mississippi in St. Paul. An architectural rendering for the proposed Minnesota Latino Museum in the Harriet Island Regional Park in St. Paul. Credit: Provided by the Minnesota Latino Museum READ MORE Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Looking forward, looking back: Mizna’s Arab Film Fest digs into cultural archives New indie film ‘QUEEN(S)’ brings undocumented immigrant story to Minnesota for its world premiere Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: LATINO , Minnesota Latino Museum , museum , St. Paul Alex V. Cipolle | MPR Alex V. Cipolle is senior arts reporter and critic for Minnesota Public Radio. More by Alex V. Cipolle | MPR Latest Articles St. Paul neighbors celebrate as Northern Iron ends production — and push for a say in what comes next Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Discover, know, go! Minnesota resources, events, and ways to get involved delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for Sahan Pathfinder , our community-first newsletter. Sign up! This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close