Jake Przytarski Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Jake Przytarski Reporter Twitter Jake Przytarski is a reporter for the Duluth News Tribune covering St. Louis County, transportation and environmental issues. Przytarski has six years of journalism experience, including two years spent with the Cloquet Pine Journal. He has covered topics ranging from sports to education to government and community happenings. His work has received awards from the Minnesota Newspaper Association. He earned a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Minnesota Duluth. He speaks English, and a little bit of Spanish. Local St. Louis County Board delays Greenwood boundary hearing The public hearing on a proposed border change for Greenwood Township will continue on Nov. 10 in Gilbert. 3d ago &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local Johnson, Kehr joust in District 8A candidate forum Incumbent Pete Johnson and challenger Allan Kehr II tackled a variety of local and statewide issues during Tuesday's forum. 5d ago &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local Candidates spar in St. Louis County Board race Incumbent Annie Harala and challenger Kris Eilers are vying to represent District 1. 6d ago &#183; By Jake Przytarski Subscribers Only Local Zeitgeist project puts unclaimed bikes back on Duluth streets The People Powered Bike Project refurbishes abandoned bikes and donates them to residents facing transportation barriers. Sep 26 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local St. Louis County Board establishes maximum property tax levy The 6.25%, or $12.67 million, increase was finalized during the board's Tuesday meeting at the Cook Community Center. Sep 22 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Subscribers Only Local Duluth author remains hopeful amid cancer return Chris Monroe, author of “Monkey with a Tool Belt," recently learned that her breast cancer diagnosis has returned after 16 years. Sep 21 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local News Tribune recognizes 2026 Best of the Best winners Bent Paddle Brewing hosted the celebration of this year's winners and runners-up on Thursday. Sep 17 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local Transportation Academy teaches public how to shape road projects The second year of the Zeitgeist's Transportation Academy kicked off Wednesday, Sept. 16. Sep 17 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local St. Louis County Board caps tax levy increase at 6.3% The levy increase will be offset by growth in the county's tax base from new construction. Sep 10 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Local Highway 61 tunnel lighting project resumes Single-lane travel through the tunnels will be directed by signals Mondays through Fridays until late October, when work is completed. Sep 7 &#183; By Jake Przytarski Load More Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.