Minneapolis events honor George Floyd through remembrance Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in ARTS & CULTURE George Floyd remembrance events will celebrate life and community From grief to joy, the sixth-anniversary memorial events in Minneapolis will honor his legacy through reflections on racial justice, healing and community action. by Deanna Pistono May 21, 2026 May 20, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook A mural at George Floyd Square on the third anniversary of his murder on Thursday, May 25, 2023. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW George Floyd’s murder on May 25, 2020, brought Jeanelle Austin back to Minneapolis. When Floyd was killed by Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, Austin, an activist with a background in theology, was living in Texas. When family members in Minneapolis reached out to her asking for resources to deal with the aftermath of Floyd’s death, she came home, packing only one week’s worth of clothes. In Minneapolis, Austin began caring for the memorial at George Floyd Square, including the many items left there as memorial offerings. As the number of items grew, Austin realized that the job of caretaking had “called her to stay.” She moved back to Minneapolis in August 2020. There was still the question of what to do with the offerings — donate them to a museum? Keep them in storage? Or start a nonprofit and keep the items together in hopes of one day building a museum around them? Austin connected with Paris Stevens and Angela Harrelson, Floyd’s cousin and aunt. Ultimately, Stevens and Harrelson decided that the items should be preserved and kept in storage for a future museum. The three women founded the George Floyd Global Memorial. In 2024, the organization was renamed Rise and Remember. Jeanelle Austin helped co-found the George Floyd Global Memorial, which in 2024 was renamed Rise and Remember. Credit: Sharolyn B. Hagen, SBH Photography Stevens, Floyd’s cousin, described the first one-day anniversary of Floyd’s death in 2021 as a “huge block party.” Over time, the Rise and Remember Festival has grown. In this, its sixth year, there will be three days of programming, from a community award ceremony on May 23 to a festival day on May 25. Even before programming begins on May 23, other events are taking place to honor and remember Floyd. Southwest Alliance for Equity’s monthly gathering The Southwest Alliance for Equity (SWAE) began, like Rise and Remember, after Floyd’s murder. Kristen Ingle and Elianna Lippold-Johnson, co-founders of the organization, started the monthly meetups for fellow southwest Minneapolis residents to push for a more equitable city -– something they said was especially important given the predominantly white and wealthy population of southwest Minneapolis. “We've really been focused on being better neighbors to all of Minneapolis and being more connected to neighbors across the city,” Ingle said. Arts, events, resources. Discover what’s going on in Minnesota in our weekly newsletter, Sahan Pathfinder. Sign up SWAE, which began as a meeting of 10 people in Ingle’s back yard, has grown into monthly gatherings of 60 to 100 participants. Most recently, these monthly gatherings have been spaces for people to grapple with the federal government’s immigration crackdown. This month’s SWAE gathering is called Community as Resistance: Reflections on the Murder of George Floyd. The primary speaker will be Jeanelle Austin, co-founder of Rise and Remember. KingDemetrius Pendleton, an independent journalist, will also be present. Lippold-Johnson hopes the event, which will include time for small-group conversation, will spark discussion about participants’ relationships to the city of Minneapolis, their understanding of racial inequity in Minneapolis, and what it means to be a good neighbor. Date: May 21, 2026 Time: 7 to 9 p.m. Location: 100 W. 46th St., Minneapolis Cost: Free to the public. Attendees are encouraged to RSVP via the organization’s EventBrite . More information: The monthly gatherings begin with a potluck, and attendees are encouraged to bring something to share. Day of Remembrance Leslie Redmond, head of the nonprofit Win Back and former president of the Minneapolis NAACP, has hosted a Day of Remembrance every year since Floyd’s death. “What we don’t remember, we repeat,” Redmond said, adding that acts of remembrance are especially important in the Trump era. “[They’re] trying to make us think we didn't see what we all saw,” Redmond said. “But we know what we saw on May 25, 2020.” While a ticketed brunch earlier in the day is sold out, the public portion of the Day of Remembrance, a moment of silence at George Floyd Square, is open to the public. Attendees are encouraged to lay yellow roses at the site. Date: May 22, 2026 Time: Begins at noon Location: George Floyd Square (E. 38th Street and Chicago Avenue), Minneapolis Cost: Free to the public The Development’s Memorialization of Minnesota Victims of Law Enforcement The Development, a new organization focused on activism through hip-hop, is hosting two performances featuring local spoken-word artists and musicians on May 22 and 23. The Memorialization of Minnesota Law Enforcement Victims performances will honor all who have lost their lives to police brutality and, as the Development added in a news release, “encourage the community to come together” to end such violence. Ticket proceeds will go to Communities United Against Police Brutality. Michelle Gross, president of that organization, will speak at both performances. Each night’s performance is located in a different Minneapolis venue. On May 22, the lineup will feature artists Melody, Da Black Pearll, So Supreme (DJ), Cadillac Kolstad, Chris Raww, Peewee Dread, Nutcracker Dungeonist, Sentwalli and Christian Steadfast at Pimento Jamaican Kitchen & Rum Bar. The next day, at Acadia, performers Desdamona, Vonnie 500, Moonshie Sax, J Remi, Afro Preacham and Eye Owe will join some of those who performed at Pimento — specifically, Nutcracker Dungeonist, Christian Steadfast and Chris Raww. Date: May 22 and 23 Time: 6 p.m. on May 22 and 7 p.m. on May 23 Location: Pimento, 2524 Nicollet Ave. (May 22) and Acadia, 329 Cedar Ave. (May 23) Cost: Tickets are $10 at the door. Rise to Remember’s Night of Honor Rise to Remember’s Night of Honor kickstarts the organization’s annual remembrance of George Floyd. At the event, the organization will present awards to members of the community who have helped further the cause of racial justice, including three awards for those 30 and younger and three for those 65 and older. All honorees have been selected from a pool of public nominations. Gospel artist James Fortune will perform at the event, where, in honor of the musician Prince, who died on April 26, 2016, there will be a purple carpet instead of a red carpet. “I would love for people who are attending to share what they've experienced and how they've overcome [on the purple carpet],” said Stevens, Floyd’s cousin. “Everyone has experienced loss, and I think when George Floyd died, everyone felt that loss.” Date: May 23, 2026 Time: 7 to 10 p.m. Location: 5418 Wayzata Boulevard, Golden Valley Cost: A ticketed event. Lowest ticket prices are available for impacted families and community members. For more details regarding ticket cost and to purchase tickets online, visit https://www.zeffy.com/en-US/ticketing/night-of-honor Rise and Remember’s Perry Talks Symposium After the Night of Honor, Rise and Remember is set to host the Perry Talks Symposium. Pennsylvania state Rep. Malcolm Kenyatta will be the keynote speaker, followed by a panel of Black journalists based in Minnesota who will discuss racial justice and the right to freedom of speech promised by the First Amendment. Featured panelists include Georgia Fort, an independent journalist arrested by federal agents for reporting on an anti-ICE protest at a church in St. Paul, and Duchesne Drew, president of Minnesota Public Radio. Date: May 24, 2026 Time: 2 to 4:30 p.m. Location: 3015 13th Ave. S, Suite 2, Minneapolis Cost: $20 for general admission and $10 for students and seniors 65 and older. To purchase tickets, visit https://www.zeffy.com/en-US/ticketing/perry-talks&#8211;2026 Rise and Remember’s Festival Day The final event of Rise and Remember’s three days of programming will be a festival day of remembrance through celebration and joy, featuring performances and local vendors. For the first time, there will be space to celebrate young innovators, with five young entrepreneurs set to present their business concepts. In honor of Prince, various musical acts, including the International Reggae All Stars and St. Paul and the Minneapolis Funk All Stars, will perform. Brass Solidarity, a brass band known for playing at George Floyd Square at 5:30 p.m. every Monday, also will perform and lead a candlelight vigil from George Floyd Square to the Say Their Names cemetery. Rise and Remember’s founders say there will be something for everyone at the festival and that everyone is welcome. “What I like about this festival is that there's so much love and support, and everyone has lost someone,” said Stevens. “This moment of being together helps me grieve.” Some people, Austin said, have questioned why the festival is joyous when it is held in memory of a tragedy. But for her, joy and grief are not mutually exclusive. “It's very possible for us to remember, to hold sacred, to honor, to pay respect, to have joy, and to celebrate,” she said. “Sometimes grief looks like joy, looks like music, looks like song, looks like dance, looks like healthy commerce amongst community members, looks like kids playing with bubbles. Whatever actions allow us to remember what we have lost are acceptable forms of grief.” Date: May 25, 2026 Time: Noon to 9 p.m. Location: George Floyd Square (E. 38th Street and Chicago Avenue), Minneapolis Cost: Free. Those attending are encouraged to RSVP online at https://www.zeffy.com/en-US/ticketing/2026-rise-and-remember-street-festival READ MORE Looking forward, looking back: Mizna’s Arab Film Fest digs into cultural archives New indie film ‘QUEEN(S)’ brings undocumented immigrant story to Minnesota for its world premiere Author Sun Yung Shin unpacks the cultural loss of transnational adoption in new memoir ‘Heart Eater’ Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: George Floyd , George Floyd Square Deanna Pistono Freelance reporter Deanna Pistono was most recently the race and health equity reporting fellow at MinnPost. She has a master&#039;s degree from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication... More by Deanna Pistono Latest Articles Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Here’s how St. Paul Mayor Kaohly Her responded to questions in her sexual harassment investigation ‘What will students actually gain?’ North Minneapolis parents slam proposed school closures About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok Discover, know, go! Minnesota resources, events, and ways to get involved delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for Sahan Pathfinder , our community-first newsletter. Sign up! This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close