Sen. Nicole Mitchell to resign by Aug. 4, attorney says &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 13:19 Brief Government & Politics The Potluck Sen. Nicole Mitchell to resign by Aug. 4, attorney says By Michelle Griffith - July 21, 2025 1:19 pm Minnesota Sen. Nicole Mitchell listens to the closing arguments of her attorney Bruce Ringstrom Jr. during the fifth day of her felony burglary trial on Friday, July 18, 2025, at Becker County District Court in Detroit Lakes. To the right of Sen. Mitchell are her other attorneys Matthew Keller and Dane DeKrey. Becker County Attorney Brian McDonald appears in the foreground. (Photo by Anna Paige/Fargo Forum pool photo) Sen. Nicole Mitchell, a Woodbury Democrat who was found guilty of first-degree burglary and possession of burglary tools Friday, will resign from the Minnesota Senate by Aug. 4, her attorney said in a statement Monday The first-term senator will resign no later than Aug. 4 at 5 p.m., once she finishes four tasks: completes outstanding legislative projects, wraps up ongoing constituent services, transitions legislative staff and obtains health insurance for her son, according to the statement from Dane DeKrey, who helped defend Mitchell during the recent five-day trial. The unusual resignation announcement means Mitchell will continue to represent her constituents for up to two weeks as a convicted felon. It also means that Democrats will lose their one-seat majority in the 34-33 Minnesota Senate until Gov. Tim Walz calls a special election to replace her. Senate Minority Leader Mark Johnson, R-East Grand Forks, criticized Mitchell’s decision to remain in the Senate for up to two weeks. “Sen. Mitchell was convicted of two felonies; she doesn’t get to give the Senate two weeks’ notice,” Johnson said in a statement. A jury convicted Mitchell of felony burglary and possession of burglary tools Friday after a grueling trial that played out like a family drama. The prosecution successfully argued that Mitchell intended to steal her late father’s possessions from her stepmother when she broke into her Detroit Lakes home on April 22, 2024. The state’s main evidence was that she told police as much during her arrest, and the jury saw the footage of her admissions from police officers’ body-worn cameras. Mitchell unsuccessfully tried to convince the jury of nine men and three women that she was in the Detroit Lakes home to conduct a welfare check on her stepmother. Mitchell testified in her own defense, and told the jury that her stepmother was struggling with paranoia due to Alzheimer’s disease. DeKrey on Friday told reporters that Mitchell will likely appeal the verdict. Mitchell’s sentencing has not been scheduled, but because she has no criminal history her sentence will likely be far less than the maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for burglary and three years for burglary tools. Senate Majority Leader Erin Murphy, DFL-St. Paul, called on Mitchell to resign for the first time immediately following the announcement of the jury’s verdict. Mitchell in 2022 won her race by about 17 percentage points, and the district leans heavily Democratic. Whether residents in the district — which includes Woodbury and Maplewood — want to elect another Democrat remains to be seen, given Mitchell’s crimes. Democrats have performed well in special elections during the first and now second terms of President Donald Trump. X Republish Post Sen. Nicole Mitchell to resign by Aug. 4, attorney says by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer July 21, 2025 Sen. Nicole Mitchell to resign by Aug. 4, attorney says by Michelle Griffith, Minnesota Reformer July 21, 2025 Sen. Nicole Mitchell, a Woodbury Democrat who was found guilty of first-degree burglary and possession of burglary tools Friday, will resign from the Minnesota Senate by Aug. 4, her attorney said in a statement Monday The first-term senator will resign no later than Aug. 4 at 5 p.m., once she finishes four tasks: completes outstanding legislative projects, wraps up ongoing constituent services, transitions legislative staff and obtains health insurance for her son, according to the statement from Dane DeKrey, who helped defend Mitchell during the recent five-day trial. The unusual resignation announcement means Mitchell will continue to represent her constituents for up to two weeks as a convicted felon. It also means that Democrats will lose their one-seat majority in the 34-33 Minnesota Senate until Gov. Tim Walz calls a special election to replace her. Senate Minority Leader Mark Johnson, R-East Grand Forks, criticized Mitchell’s decision to remain in the Senate for up to two weeks. “Sen. Mitchell was convicted of two felonies; she doesn’t get to give the Senate two weeks’ notice,” Johnson said in a statement. A jury convicted Mitchell of felony burglary and possession of burglary tools Friday after a grueling trial that played out like a family drama. The prosecution successfully argued that Mitchell intended to steal her late father’s possessions from her stepmother when she broke into her Detroit Lakes home on April 22, 2024. The state’s main evidence was that she told police as much during her arrest, and the jury saw the footage of her admissions from police officers’ body-worn cameras. Mitchell unsuccessfully tried to convince the jury of nine men and three women that she was in the Detroit Lakes home to conduct a welfare check on her stepmother. Mitchell testified in her own defense, and told the jury that her stepmother was struggling with paranoia due to Alzheimer’s disease. DeKrey on Friday told reporters that Mitchell will likely appeal the verdict. Mitchell’s sentencing has not been scheduled, but because she has no criminal history her sentence will likely be far less than the maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for burglary and three years for burglary tools. Senate Majority Leader Erin Murphy, DFL-St. Paul, called on Mitchell to resign for the first time immediately following the announcement of the jury’s verdict. Mitchell in 2022 won her race by about 17 percentage points, and the district leans heavily Democratic. Whether residents in the district — which includes Woodbury and Maplewood — want to elect another Democrat remains to be seen, given Mitchell’s crimes. Democrats have performed well in special elections during the first and now second terms of President Donald Trump. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Michelle Griffith Michelle Griffith covers Minnesota politics and policy for the Reformer. She's also covering the 2026 race for Minnesota governor. Most recently she was a reporter with The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead in North Dakota where she covered state and local government and Indigenous issues. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Minnesota Legislature passes massive cash infusion for rental, mortgage assistance by Michelle Griffith May 14, 2026 Sen. Amy Klobuchar seeks clean break from Walz, releases anti-fraud plan by Michelle Griffith May 3, 2026 With three weeks left, long to-do list for Minnesota lawmakers becomes more elusive by Michelle Griffith April 28, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.