Labor leaders say Wilfs are ‘morally accountable’ for wage theft claims on Vikings development &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 12:19 Brief Work & Money The Potluck Labor leaders say Wilfs are ‘morally accountable’ for wage theft claims on Vikings development By Max Nesterak - May 5, 2022 12:19 pm Abel Sustaito says he's still owed thousands of dollars for his work on the Viking Lakes project. During a news conference on May 5, 2022, he urged state regulators to crack down on wage theft. Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer. Labor leaders are calling on the Vikings owners to correct the wage theft claimed by dozens of workers who helped build new apartments at the 200-acre Eagan mixed development built around the NFL team’s new training facility. “As immigrant workers from Mexico, we came here to work and we have our own dreams, but we were taken advantage of,” said Javier Mendez Velasco in Spanish through an interpreter, during a news conference at the Capitol on Thursday. The news conference follows a Reformer investigation detailing the workers’ claims and the prevalence of labor abuses in the non-unionized sector of the construction industry. Velasco is one of more than 25 workers who say they’re owed more than $100,000 in wages for their work installing siding and hanging drywall on the Viking Lakes project and have filed complaints with the state Department of Labor and Industry. Union leaders say it’s likely one of the largest alleged wage theft cases in state history. The workers were not employed by the Vikings or the owners’ development arm, MV Ventures, but rather two subcontractors: Absolute Drywall and Property Maintenance and Construction, which itself was a subcontractor for the company hired by the Vikings, Advantage Construction. The Vikings said in a statement to the Reformer that they require subcontractors to abide by all labor laws and regulations, and that they are unaware of any violations on the project. The owner of Advantage Construction, Chris Amiot, said he was aware of the inquiry by state regulators but did not know of any wrongdoing. He said his company subcontracted the work to Property Maintenance and Construction. The owner of Property Maintenance and Construction, Leo Pimentel, denied any wrongdoing. The owner of Absolute Drywall, Daniel Ortega, did not return multiple calls seeking comment. Labor leaders say the Vikings’ owners, Zygi and Mark Wilf, are ultimately “morally accountable” for any labor abuses that happen on their developments. “(Developers) don’t have to wait for the taxpayers to fund an investigation. The people at the top have the ability to solve this problem,” said Burt Johnson, a lawyer for the North Central States Regional Council of Carpenters. Members of the carpenters union and the worker advocacy group Centro de Trabajadores Unidos en la Lucha (CTUL) say they warned Vikings executives that wage theft would likely occur on the job site. One of the subcontractors, Absolute Drywall, has been cited multiple times by state and federal regulators for violating child labor laws, misclassifying workers as subcontractors, wage theft and providing false information to authorities. Adam Duininck, director of government affairs for the carpenters union, said the Vikings executives told them union bids weren’t accepted on the apartment project because they were uncompetitive. “And we said back to them, ‘The reason that the price is so low is because of wage theft,’” Duininck said. Wage theft costs the state upwards of $136 million a year in lost tax revenue, according to one estimate by the Midwest Economic Policy Institute. It’s particularly prevalent in construction, with nearly a quarter of construction workers in Minnesota — about 30,000 people — estimated to be misclassified or paid off the books. Veronica Mendez Moore, co-director of CTUL, said the Wilf family needs to be held to a high standard given the level of public subsidy they’ve received. Minnesota taxpayers — mostly those who buy cigarettes and gambling pull tabs — covered $498 million of the cost of the Vikings stadium in downtown Minneapolis. The year after it was completed, the value of the Vikings franchise — and with it the Wilfs’ personal wealth — shot up 38% . “This case involves one of the wealthiest and most powerful families in the state. There is no excuse,” Mendez Moore said. X Republish Post Labor leaders say Wilfs are ‘morally accountable’ for wage theft claims on Vikings development by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer May 5, 2022 Labor leaders say Wilfs are ‘morally accountable’ for wage theft claims on Vikings development by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer May 5, 2022 Labor leaders are calling on the Vikings owners to correct the wage theft claimed by dozens of workers who helped build new apartments at the 200-acre Eagan mixed development built around the NFL team’s new training facility. “As immigrant workers from Mexico, we came here to work and we have our own dreams, but we were taken advantage of,” said Javier Mendez Velasco in Spanish through an interpreter, during a news conference at the Capitol on Thursday. The news conference follows a Reformer investigation detailing the workers’ claims and the prevalence of labor abuses in the non-unionized sector of the construction industry. Velasco is one of more than 25 workers who say they’re owed more than $100,000 in wages for their work installing siding and hanging drywall on the Viking Lakes project and have filed complaints with the state Department of Labor and Industry. Union leaders say it’s likely one of the largest alleged wage theft cases in state history. The workers were not employed by the Vikings or the owners’ development arm, MV Ventures, but rather two subcontractors: Absolute Drywall and Property Maintenance and Construction, which itself was a subcontractor for the company hired by the Vikings, Advantage Construction. The Vikings said in a statement to the Reformer that they require subcontractors to abide by all labor laws and regulations, and that they are unaware of any violations on the project. The owner of Advantage Construction, Chris Amiot, said he was aware of the inquiry by state regulators but did not know of any wrongdoing. He said his company subcontracted the work to Property Maintenance and Construction. The owner of Property Maintenance and Construction, Leo Pimentel, denied any wrongdoing. The owner of Absolute Drywall, Daniel Ortega, did not return multiple calls seeking comment. Labor leaders say the Vikings’ owners, Zygi and Mark Wilf, are ultimately “morally accountable” for any labor abuses that happen on their developments. “(Developers) don’t have to wait for the taxpayers to fund an investigation. The people at the top have the ability to solve this problem,” said Burt Johnson, a lawyer for the North Central States Regional Council of Carpenters. Members of the carpenters union and the worker advocacy group Centro de Trabajadores Unidos en la Lucha (CTUL) say they warned Vikings executives that wage theft would likely occur on the job site. One of the subcontractors, Absolute Drywall, has been cited multiple times by state and federal regulators for violating child labor laws, misclassifying workers as subcontractors, wage theft and providing false information to authorities. Adam Duininck, director of government affairs for the carpenters union, said the Vikings executives told them union bids weren’t accepted on the apartment project because they were uncompetitive. “And we said back to them, ‘The reason that the price is so low is because of wage theft,’” Duininck said. Wage theft costs the state upwards of $136 million a year in lost tax revenue, according to one estimate by the Midwest Economic Policy Institute. It’s particularly prevalent in construction, with nearly a quarter of construction workers in Minnesota — about 30,000 people — estimated to be misclassified or paid off the books. Veronica Mendez Moore, co-director of CTUL, said the Wilf family needs to be held to a high standard given the level of public subsidy they’ve received. Minnesota taxpayers — mostly those who buy cigarettes and gambling pull tabs — covered $498 million of the cost of the Vikings stadium in downtown Minneapolis. The year after it was completed, the value of the Vikings franchise — and with it the Wilfs’ personal wealth — shot up 38% . “This case involves one of the wealthiest and most powerful families in the state. There is no excuse,” Mendez Moore said. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom The state of labor in Minnesota in 6 charts by Alyssa Chen September 7, 2026 Construction firms to pay $1.28M to workers in largest wage recovery by Minnesota labor agency by Max Nesterak April 27, 2026 Hennepin County pays $335,000 in back wages to subcontracted security guards by Max Nesterak December 15, 2025 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.