Hennepin begins shopping for hotels for homeless people &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 16:02 Brief COVID-19 The Potluck Hennepin begins shopping for hotels for homeless people By Max Nesterak - May 20, 2020 4:02 pm Hennepin County Government Center. (Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer.) The Hennepin County Board voted 6-1 on Tuesday to begin negotiating the purchase of hotels to house homeless people during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. “I think that this would be a huge asset for us,” said Commissioner Angela Conley during Tuesday’s meeting. “Doing something now that can carry over into that post-Covid world really will change the landscape of how supportive housing could look.” The move would allow the county to leverage emergency federal funding directed at the current COVID-19 crisis to create long-term affordable housing for homeless residents. Since March, the county has leased upwards of 600 hotel rooms for homeless people in an effort to limit the risk of a COVID-19 outbreak in crowded shelters and provide isolation space for those infected. The cost to the county is about $2.5 million per month, which includes meals and staffing at the hotels. Over the long term, it could be cheaper to own rather than rent the hotels. It would also provide the county with an asset at the end of the crisis, which it could sell or lease to a shelter provider. The county can be reimbursed for leasing or buying the hotels by the federal government through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which will provide Hennepin County with $220 million in aid. The county will have to spend that money by December 30 or else return it to the U.S. Treasury. Should the health emergency extend into next year, as many experts predict, owning the hotels would allow the county to continue housing homeless individuals long after the CARES Act funding expires. Commissioner Jan Callison, the lone no vote, voiced concern that the county could be getting in over its head with the purchase. “I continue to think this is a deceptively simple idea with all sorts of complexities underneath it,” she said at Tuesday’s board meeting. Callison raised the prospect of high maintenance costs and the inability to off-load the properties once the crisis is over. She and other commissioners also raised concerns about the county breaking with its tradition of not owning shelters. “We do not own shelter in Hennepin County. We work with the shelter system. We support the shelter system . . . and we’ve asked the state to be our partner. My fear is this will take the state off the hook,” Callison said. Commissioners Jeff Johnson and Debbie Goettel said they would vote for the proposal under the assumption that the county would not own or operate the properties long-term. Commissioner Mike Opat said he didn’t want to rule out owning the properties long-term and leasing them to a shelter operator. “If done correctly, it will add another tool to our toolbox in terms of helping folks on the lower end of the socioeconomic scale,” Opat said. The board has not yet considered specific purchase agreements. The resolution authorizes county staff to negotiate agreements, which would need to be approved by the board. X Republish Post Hennepin begins shopping for hotels for homeless people by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer May 20, 2020 Hennepin begins shopping for hotels for homeless people by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer May 20, 2020 The Hennepin County Board voted 6-1 on Tuesday to begin negotiating the purchase of hotels to house homeless people during the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. “I think that this would be a huge asset for us,” said Commissioner Angela Conley during Tuesday’s meeting. “Doing something now that can carry over into that post-Covid world really will change the landscape of how supportive housing could look.” The move would allow the county to leverage emergency federal funding directed at the current COVID-19 crisis to create long-term affordable housing for homeless residents. Since March, the county has leased upwards of 600 hotel rooms for homeless people in an effort to limit the risk of a COVID-19 outbreak in crowded shelters and provide isolation space for those infected. The cost to the county is about $2.5 million per month, which includes meals and staffing at the hotels. Over the long term, it could be cheaper to own rather than rent the hotels. It would also provide the county with an asset at the end of the crisis, which it could sell or lease to a shelter provider. The county can be reimbursed for leasing or buying the hotels by the federal government through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which will provide Hennepin County with $220 million in aid. The county will have to spend that money by December 30 or else return it to the U.S. Treasury. Should the health emergency extend into next year, as many experts predict, owning the hotels would allow the county to continue housing homeless individuals long after the CARES Act funding expires. Commissioner Jan Callison, the lone no vote, voiced concern that the county could be getting in over its head with the purchase. “I continue to think this is a deceptively simple idea with all sorts of complexities underneath it,” she said at Tuesday’s board meeting. Callison raised the prospect of high maintenance costs and the inability to off-load the properties once the crisis is over. She and other commissioners also raised concerns about the county breaking with its tradition of not owning shelters. “We do not own shelter in Hennepin County. We work with the shelter system. We support the shelter system . . . and we’ve asked the state to be our partner. My fear is this will take the state off the hook,” Callison said. Commissioners Jeff Johnson and Debbie Goettel said they would vote for the proposal under the assumption that the county would not own or operate the properties long-term. Commissioner Mike Opat said he didn’t want to rule out owning the properties long-term and leasing them to a shelter operator. “If done correctly, it will add another tool to our toolbox in terms of helping folks on the lower end of the socioeconomic scale,” Opat said. The board has not yet considered specific purchase agreements. The resolution authorizes county staff to negotiate agreements, which would need to be approved by the board. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Judge temporarily blocks Corrections Dept. from ordering people back to prison from medical release by Michelle Griffith August 11, 2022 Minnesota released some inmates who were susceptible to COVID-19. Now, 18 have to return. by Michelle Griffith August 8, 2022 U.S. lawmakers look for path ahead on billions in restaurant, small business aid by Jennifer Shutt April 12, 2022 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.