Historic all-female City Council elected in St. Paul Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in POLITICS Historic all-female City Council elected in St. Paul after Anika Bowie, Cheniqua Johnson declared winners The new St. Paul City Council will be composed of all women, and six of seven seats will be filled by people of color. by Katelyn Vue November 10, 2023 November 10, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Clockwise from top left: Anika Bowie, Rebecca Noecker, Saura Jost, Mitra Jalali, Cheniqua Johnson, Nelsie Yang, Hwa Jeong Kim. Credit: Courtesy of candidates&#039; campaigns Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW A historic all-female City Council has been elected in St. Paul after Anika Bowie and Cheniqua Johnson were declared winners Friday in their races. After hours of vote tabulation Friday by the Ramsey County Elections Office, Johnson won Ward 7 by a slim margin against second-place finisher Pa Der Vang. Bowie won by a wide margin in Ward 1 against runner-up James Lo. The tabulation was required because neither won 51 percent or more of the first-choice votes in Tuesday's election. St. Paul observes ranked choice voting. The new City Council will also be composed of six people of color, making it the most racially diverse St. Paul City Council in history. The council, which will be sworn in next year, is the "youngest, most progressive and most diverse" in the city's history, said a joint statement issued Friday by Council Members Mitra Jalali, Rebecca Noecker, and Nelsie Yang, and Council Members-elect Bowie, Johnson, Saura Jost, and Hwa Jeong Kim. "These historic results reflect Saint Paul’s voters and their values," the statement said. "Despite over a quarter-million dollars of conservative special interest spending citywide, organized people beat organized money. Saint Paul voters united, and through thousands of volunteer hours and grassroots donations, elected a diverse, progressive new Council for our city. This historic moment was made possible by the relentless work of these campaigns alongside a community coalition of faith leaders, labor allies, frontline city workers, educators, public safety, housing and climate action advocates, and more. "Today, we thank our community coalition and thousands of supporters for entrusting us with the responsibility of leading our city forward for a better future. We also thank the hundreds of election judges, poll workers and staff who make local elections happen, down to counting every last ballot." Incumbents Jalali, Yang, and Noecker won reelection in their wards. Newcomers Kim won the Ward 5 race and Jost won in Ward 3. "When we take office January 2024, we are excited to govern alongside our community," said the new council's joint statement, "building toward our shared vision for Saint Paul these next four years, including: upholding and improving rent stabilization, championing equitable development and housing options at all income levels, community wealth-building through community ownership, building climate resilience through modernizing our streets and bike/pedestrian infrastructure, investing in community safety programs that are interrupting cycles of violence, expanding workers’ rights and protections, and more. "We gratefully close this chapter today. We look forward to resting, then resuming the work ahead with our community for a better Saint Paul." Bowie, 31, is an entrepreneur and lives in the Frogtown neighborhood. She told Sahan Journal before Election Day that she was running "to bring a global perspective to Ward 1, uniting diverse voices." “Ward 1 is in the heart of Saint Paul and we ran a race with a heart to serve everyone no matter their race, gender, income, religion, or sexual orientation," Bowie said in the written statement issued Friday by the new council. "This election brought out historic turnout and a wide range of choices on the ballot, thanks to ranked-choice voting.” Johnson, 28, is a program officer at the Saint Paul & Minnesota Foundation, and is a first-time homeowner in the Dayton's Bluff neighborhood. “I came in really feeling determined to see this through, to sit there patiently waiting for the process to take its hold, and for basically God to do his work,” Johnson said shortly after declaring victory Friday. “Towards the end, you just feel like the work has paid off, and knowing that you left it on the table when you walk into a space is the best feeling in the world, followed by actually winning because of it.” I am proud to officially be Councilmember-elect Cheniqua Johnson 🎉👏🏽 Thank you for electing the first Black woman and the first person of color to this seat. Thank you for electing the second Black woman to ever serve on the Saint Paul City Council. pic.twitter.com/MFklGFUiVu — Cheniqua Johnson (@cheniquajohnson) November 10, 2023 While votes will be tabulated Monday in the Ward 3 race, the candidate who finished second in first-choice votes, Isaac Russell, has already conceded to Jost. Jost received about 48 percent of the first-choice votes to Russell’s 30 percent. Russell asked for a full count on second-choice votes, acknowledging that winning is unlikely. Jost, 35, is a civil engineer who lives in the Mac-Groveland neighborhood, and has been a DFL organizer for many years. “My vision for a more inclusive, equitable, and sustainable city mobilized a diverse coalition and local supporters that led to countless hours on the doors and the largest small-donor funded campaign in the race," Jost said in the statement released Friday by the new council. "I'm eager to get to work, with our neighbors and my City Council colleagues, to build a better Saint Paul.” Kim, 38, is the executive director of a nonprofit, and lives in the North End neighborhood. She's worked to help elect progressive women, women of color, and LGBTQ women to public office. “I am excited to work together with such a talented group of leaders and my Ward 5 neighbors to address housing, strengthen workers rights, invest in climate change solutions and resourced community-first public safety," Kim said in the new council's written statement. READ MORE Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Cheniqua Johnson , Elections 2023 , Ramsey County Elections Office , St. Paul City Council , Ward 1 , Ward 7 Katelyn Vue kvue@sahanjournal.com x Katelyn Vue is the immigration reporter for Sahan Journal. She graduated in May 2022 from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities. Prior to joining Sahan Journal, she was a metro reporting intern at the... More by Katelyn Vue Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close