Environmental groups, cities find compromise at the Capitol to end 2040 Plan lawsuit &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 14:51 News Story Government & Politics Housing & Transportation Environmental groups, cities find compromise at the Capitol to end 2040 Plan lawsuit By Madison McVan - February 28, 2024 2:51 pm Lawn signs against the Minneapolis 2040 Plan. Photo by Max Nesterak/Minnesota Reformer. Environmentalists and city governments say they’ve found a legislative compromise that would allow the city of Minneapolis to move forward with the city’s 2040 comprehensive plan, which spurred new housing development and stabilized rents from 2020 to 2022 before it was blocked by environmental lawsuits last year. Legislation ( HF2048 / SF4183 ) led by two Minneapolis DFL lawmakers, Rep. Sydney Jordan and Sen. Omar Fateh, would establish in state law that increasing housing density on already-developed land is beneficial to the environment. Nineteen other Democratic-Farmer-Labor lawmakers have signed on to the House bill. The bill still needs passage in both the House and Senate and the signature of Gov. Tim Walz, but the compromise is a crucial step on its way to passage. The proposed language would mean individuals and organizations could not sue over comprehensive plans to increase density under the Minnesota Environmental Rights Act, known as MERA. It would only apply to the seven-county metro area. The bill has the support of the League of Minnesota Cities and the Sierra Club, and more environmental groups are expected to publicly express support in the coming days, Sierra Club lobbyist Peter Wagenius said. The League of Minnesota Cities, which represents city governments at the Legislature, supports the bill because it would bring an end to the lawsuit blocking the 2040 plan. But cities still want broader protections against environmental lawsuits, said League lobbyist Craig Johnson. The compromise bill leaves room for environmental lawsuits against comprehensive plans on non-density grounds, or against cities outside of the metro area, Johnson said. Cities would prefer broader legislation exempting comprehensive plans from environmental review entirely, Johnson said. A bill introduced last year would have done just that , but it failed after opposition from environmental groups. Sierra Club backs the current proposal because it is more narrow in scope than last year’s bill, Wagenius said. “There just wasn't time in last year's session to come up with language that would simultaneously protect MERA but also prevent environmental laws from being used against the environment,” Wagenius said. X Republish Post Environmental groups, cities find compromise at the Capitol to end 2040 Plan lawsuit by Madison McVan, Minnesota Reformer February 28, 2024 Environmental groups, cities find compromise at the Capitol to end 2040 Plan lawsuit by Madison McVan, Minnesota Reformer February 28, 2024 Environmentalists and city governments say they’ve found a legislative compromise that would allow the city of Minneapolis to move forward with the city’s 2040 comprehensive plan, which spurred new housing development and stabilized rents from 2020 to 2022 before it was blocked by environmental lawsuits last year. Legislation ( HF2048 / SF4183 ) led by two Minneapolis DFL lawmakers, Rep. Sydney Jordan and Sen. Omar Fateh, would establish in state law that increasing housing density on already-developed land is beneficial to the environment. Nineteen other Democratic-Farmer-Labor lawmakers have signed on to the House bill. The bill still needs passage in both the House and Senate and the signature of Gov. Tim Walz, but the compromise is a crucial step on its way to passage. The proposed language would mean individuals and organizations could not sue over comprehensive plans to increase density under the Minnesota Environmental Rights Act, known as MERA. It would only apply to the seven-county metro area. The bill has the support of the League of Minnesota Cities and the Sierra Club, and more environmental groups are expected to publicly express support in the coming days, Sierra Club lobbyist Peter Wagenius said. The League of Minnesota Cities, which represents city governments at the Legislature, supports the bill because it would bring an end to the lawsuit blocking the 2040 plan. But cities still want broader protections against environmental lawsuits, said League lobbyist Craig Johnson. The compromise bill leaves room for environmental lawsuits against comprehensive plans on non-density grounds, or against cities outside of the metro area, Johnson said. Cities would prefer broader legislation exempting comprehensive plans from environmental review entirely, Johnson said. A bill introduced last year would have done just that , but it failed after opposition from environmental groups. Sierra Club backs the current proposal because it is more narrow in scope than last year’s bill, Wagenius said. “There just wasn't time in last year's session to come up with language that would simultaneously protect MERA but also prevent environmental laws from being used against the environment,” Wagenius said. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Madison McVan Madison McVan is a reporter covering the impact of the Trump administration on Minnesotans, including issues like immigration, agriculture, Medicaid, food, housing and other safety net cuts. She's also covering the 2026 Minnesota U.S. Senate race. Prior to joining the Reformer, she wrote about labor and environmental issues in the agriculture industry for Investigate Midwest. She moved to the Twin Cities in 2020 after graduating from the University of Missouri with degrees in journalism and Latin American studies. She's bilingual in English and Spanish. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Legislature passes law protecting Minneapolis 2040 Plan by Madison McVan May 20, 2024 House passes legislation to halt 2040 Plan lawsuit; path to Senate approval unclear by Madison McVan May 8, 2024 Housing advocates launch campaigns at state Capitol for zoning reforms and greater funding by Madison McVan February 20, 2024 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.