Johnson, Kehr joust in District 8A candidate forum - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Johnson, Kehr joust in District 8A candidate forum Incumbent Pete Johnson and challenger Allan Kehr II tackled a variety of local and statewide issues during Tuesday's forum. Pete Johnson, left, and Allan Kehr II participate in a candidate forum ahead of the general election. Wyatt Buckner / Duluth Media Group By Jake Przytarski September 29, 2026 at 9:38 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Incumbent District 8A Rep. Pete Johnson and challenger Allan Kehr II convened at The Garden in Canal Park on Tuesday evening for a candidate forum hosted by the News Tribune and the Duluth Chamber of Commerce. The two candidates sparred over a wide range of issues at the local, state and federal levels, including fraud, with Johnson and Kehr II offering different viewpoints on the problem. ADVERTISEMENT Rep. Pete Johnson Contrbuted / Johnson campaign Johnson, a Democrat who is seeking his second term after being elected in 2024, defended the legislation that established the Office of Inspector General to oversee funds and investigate state-level fraud. “That oversight needs to happen to make sure that these agencies are doing what they’re supposed to be doing,” Johnson said. Johnson also brought up funding approved by Minnesota lawmakers to modernize outdated information technology infrastructure for counties across the state. “Improving that infrastructure will make a huge difference,” he said. Allan Kehr Contributed / Allan Kehr Kehr, a Republican, said the state should recover the money stolen through fraud and questioned whether the governor-appointed inspector general and its members would have enough independence. “The members are going to be appointed by the governor, and if that’s true, that’s concerning,” Kehr said. “That means the governor, regardless of party, would get a pass, so to speak.” Johnson corrected Kehr on the appointment process, citing the bipartisan support required to meet the three-fifths majority vote in the Senate for appointments. ADVERTISEMENT The candidates also discussed data centers in light of the proposed Google facility in Hermantown. Johnson said Minnesota should do more to address concerns about energy use, noise, light pollution and effects on nearby residents related to data centers. He also stressed transparency. “I think that our communities, and not just their individual cities, but their surrounding communities, need to be able to get all the information up front so they can make a decision whether these things are good for the community or not,” he said. Kehr said he needs more time to develop an informed opinion. “I have a long way to go, I think, in terms of researching this topic,” he said. On the vision for downtown Duluth, the two candidates expressed differing opinions on what would be the right approach. ADVERTISEMENT Johnson called downtown Duluth the “heart of the city” and supports converting office space to housing. He also stressed the need for collaboration to achieve the vision, including partnerships between the public and private sectors. “There’s a lot of opportunity there,” Johnson said. “There’s a role that private dollars play. There’s a role that public dollars play.” Regarding homelessness, Johnson said the issue requires a compassionate approach. “They are real people,” Johnson said. “They are parents. They are kids. They are people that are struggling and need help.” Kehr favored a larger role for private organizations, families and churches in aiding people, saying the government should not always be the first source of funding. “I think it’s more effective to go that route,” he said. The two candidates differed on the role climate change has played for recent wildfires, and how best to deal with them in the future. Johnson, who is a full-time firefighter with the Duluth Fire Department, pointed to climate change as a contributing factor in the severe fire conditions and urged better preparation. ADVERTISEMENT He added that federal and state governments should reimburse municipal fire departments for responding to wildfires. Kehr called for a review of forest management and said a study should be done to determine climate change’s role. During their closing remarks, Johnson talked about the importance of infrastructure, but not in the context of building bridges, roads and buildings. “We have a childcare crisis in this state and in this community, and if we are not considering childcare as an infrastructure for everything else … we are doing ourselves a disservice,” he said. MORE FROM JAKE PRZYTARSKI: St. Louis County Board delays Greenwood boundary hearing 3d ago Candidates spar in St. Louis County Board race 6d ago Zeitgeist project puts unclaimed bikes back on Duluth streets Sep 26 Johnson said he gets a unique look at the needs and challenges of the community through his work as a firefighter, as it allows him to interact with people with varying backgrounds and perspectives. “I never turn down meetings with anyone who requests to talk to me, whether I think I’m going to agree with them or not,” Johnson said. “I owe them the time to have the conversation, and that won’t change if we’re in a majority or a minority.” Kehr did not expound on his positions during closing remarks, but thanked the News Tribune and Chamber of Commerce for hosting the event. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Jake Przytarski Jake Przytarski is a news reporter for the Duluth News Tribune covering St. Louis County, transportation and environmental issues. Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 1h ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 7h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 12h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.