Minneapolis mayor vetoes one rent control ballot initiative, allows second to go to voters &#8226; Minnesota Reformer Skip to main content HOME NEWS Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics Commentary ABOUT SUBSCRIBE DONATE Part of States Newsroom Search Search Work & Money Civil Rights Health Care Schools Housing & Transportation Government & Politics 16:20 Brief Government & Politics The Potluck Minneapolis mayor vetoes one rent control ballot initiative, allows second to go to voters By Max Nesterak - August 6, 2021 4:20 pm Evening rush hour in Minneapolis. Getty Images. Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey vetoed one rent control ballot initiative approved by the City Council on Friday but will allow a second to advance without his signature. That means city residents will vote on allowing the City Council to draft a rent control policy, which they could approve as an ordinance or send back to voters for approval in a future general election. Putting a specific policy before voters again could fend off potential legal challenges given ambiguity in state law. The initiative Frey vetoed would have asked voters if rent control could be drafted and enacted through a citizen-led petition — rather than written by the council — which Frey criticized as potentially turning over power to an advocacy group. “Good policy requires a data-driven approach, guidance from experts, and a process that is open to everyone and accountable to everyone — not just a single interest group,” Frey said in a statement announcing his veto. “We should not be in the business of forgoing these criteria and outsourcing our core responsibility as elected representatives.” Frey’s veto of the first initiative is unlikely to be challenged, since only eight council members voted in favor and nine votes are needed to override a mayoral veto. But Council Member Cam Gordon, who co-authored both initiatives with Council President Lisa Bender and Council Member Jeremiah Ellison, said he plans to still try to override the veto at a special council meeting on Aug. 13. “I’m disappointed in his veto,” Gordon said. “I think it’s an overreaction. I think he could have at least let it go before the voters and we could’ve had a robust campaign on it. If he or others had concerns about it they could have made their case directly to the voters.” Council Members Lisa Goodman, Linea Palmisano and Kevin Reich voted against the measure, and Andrea Jenkins abstained. Council Member Andrew Johnson, who previously voted against the measure, was absent. Passing the first initiative without a veto-proof majority marks a shift from how the council voted two weeks ago, when it overwhelmingly voted in favor of moving forward with the two rent control initiatives and directed city staff to draft corresponding ballot language. The Minneapolis Charter Commission, an appointed body that oversees the city’s charter, also recommended against allowing rent control policies to be enacted through citizen-led petitions, saying it could lead to badly written policy. The second ballot question on rent control will go before voters in November. That initiative, if approved, would amend the charter so that the City Council may write a rent control policy and pass it as an ordinance or send it back to voters to ratify in a future general election. Palmisano was the lone vote against the second initiative. She previously supported an alternative proposed by the Charter Commission that would have required voters to ratify any rent control policy written by the council. No Minnesota cities have rent control, but they’re allowed to enact rent control if approved by voters in a general election. Language in state law is ambiguous as to whether voters must approve specific policy proposals or if they can simply authorize city leaders to craft a law. The city attorney’s office has advised the council to put any proposal before voters in a general election to fend off possible legal challenges arising from the ambiguity in state law. Following news that Minneapolis would consider putting the question before voters, Senate Republicans in the state Legislature pushed a proposal to close what they called a “loophole” in the state law and prohibit any form of rent control. They later dropped the proposal in negotiations over ending the state’s eviction moratorium. St. Paul voters will decide on a citizen-led petition that would cap rent increases at 3% per year for all buildings. A citizen group on the other side of the river, Minneapolis United for Rent Control, is pushing for a similar proposal but won’t likely be able to sidestep the council now that the mayor has blocked a path for a citizen-led petition. X Republish Post Minneapolis mayor vetoes one rent control ballot initiative, allows second to go to voters by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer August 6, 2021 Minneapolis mayor vetoes one rent control ballot initiative, allows second to go to voters by Max Nesterak, Minnesota Reformer August 6, 2021 Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey vetoed one rent control ballot initiative approved by the City Council on Friday but will allow a second to advance without his signature. That means city residents will vote on allowing the City Council to draft a rent control policy, which they could approve as an ordinance or send back to voters for approval in a future general election. Putting a specific policy before voters again could fend off potential legal challenges given ambiguity in state law. The initiative Frey vetoed would have asked voters if rent control could be drafted and enacted through a citizen-led petition — rather than written by the council — which Frey criticized as potentially turning over power to an advocacy group. “Good policy requires a data-driven approach, guidance from experts, and a process that is open to everyone and accountable to everyone — not just a single interest group,” Frey said in a statement announcing his veto. “We should not be in the business of forgoing these criteria and outsourcing our core responsibility as elected representatives.” Frey’s veto of the first initiative is unlikely to be challenged, since only eight council members voted in favor and nine votes are needed to override a mayoral veto. But Council Member Cam Gordon, who co-authored both initiatives with Council President Lisa Bender and Council Member Jeremiah Ellison, said he plans to still try to override the veto at a special council meeting on Aug. 13. “I’m disappointed in his veto,” Gordon said. “I think it’s an overreaction. I think he could have at least let it go before the voters and we could’ve had a robust campaign on it. If he or others had concerns about it they could have made their case directly to the voters.” Council Members Lisa Goodman, Linea Palmisano and Kevin Reich voted against the measure, and Andrea Jenkins abstained. Council Member Andrew Johnson, who previously voted against the measure, was absent. Passing the first initiative without a veto-proof majority marks a shift from how the council voted two weeks ago, when it overwhelmingly voted in favor of moving forward with the two rent control initiatives and directed city staff to draft corresponding ballot language. The Minneapolis Charter Commission, an appointed body that oversees the city’s charter, also recommended against allowing rent control policies to be enacted through citizen-led petitions, saying it could lead to badly written policy. The second ballot question on rent control will go before voters in November. That initiative, if approved, would amend the charter so that the City Council may write a rent control policy and pass it as an ordinance or send it back to voters to ratify in a future general election. Palmisano was the lone vote against the second initiative. She previously supported an alternative proposed by the Charter Commission that would have required voters to ratify any rent control policy written by the council. No Minnesota cities have rent control, but they’re allowed to enact rent control if approved by voters in a general election. Language in state law is ambiguous as to whether voters must approve specific policy proposals or if they can simply authorize city leaders to craft a law. The city attorney’s office has advised the council to put any proposal before voters in a general election to fend off possible legal challenges arising from the ambiguity in state law. Following news that Minneapolis would consider putting the question before voters, Senate Republicans in the state Legislature pushed a proposal to close what they called a “loophole” in the state law and prohibit any form of rent control. They later dropped the proposal in negotiations over ending the state’s eviction moratorium. St. Paul voters will decide on a citizen-led petition that would cap rent increases at 3% per year for all buildings. A citizen group on the other side of the river, Minneapolis United for Rent Control, is pushing for a similar proposal but won’t likely be able to sidestep the council now that the mayor has blocked a path for a citizen-led petition. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity. Minnesota Reformer maintains editorial independence. Contact Editor J. Patrick Coolican for questions: info@minnesotareformer.com . View Republishing Guidelines Copy to clipboard 1 Republish Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. AP and Getty images may not be republished. Please see our republishing guidelines for use of any other photos and graphics. Author Info Max Nesterak Max Nesterak is the deputy editor of the Reformer and reports on state government, politics and labor. Before helping launch the Reformer in 2020, he worked for Minnesota Public Radio and National Public Radio. He was also a Fulbright Scholar to Berlin, Germany. Minnesota Reformer is part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. MORE FROM AUTHOR More from our Newsroom Minneapolis council advances proposal to mandate human drivers in robotaxis by Max Nesterak September 29, 2026 Minneapolis weighs ban on driverless robotaxis to protect rideshare drivers by Max Nesterak September 17, 2026 Community gathers in Minneapolis to remember Annunciation victims a year after shooting by Michelle Griffith and Alyssa Chen August 27, 2026 A Journal of the Free People of Minnesota Democracy Toolkit // League of Women Voters guide | Find my polling place | Who represents me in the legislature? | Contact state house members | Contact state senators DEMOCRACY TOOLKIT League of Women Voters guide Find my polling place Who represents me in the legislature? Contact state house members Contact state senators &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 ABOUT US The Minnesota Reformer is an independent, nonprofit news organization dedicated to keeping Minnesotans informed and unearthing stories other outlets can’t or won’t tell. We’re in the halls of government tracking what elected officials are up to — and monitoring the powerful forces trying to influence them. But we’re also on the streets, at the bars and parks, on farms and in warehouses, telling you stories of the people being affected by the actions of government and big business. And we’re free. No ads. No paywall. We’re part of States Newsroom , the nation’s largest state-focused nonprofit news organization. DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy Our stories may be republished online or in print under Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND 4.0. We ask that you edit only for style or to shorten, provide proper attribution and link to our website. (See full republishing guidelines .) DEIJ Policy | Privacy Policy | Ethics Policy | AI Policy &copy; Minnesota Reformer, 2026 v1.139.0 States Newsroom Fair. Fearless. Free.