Plan to clear 3 largest St. Paul homeless encampments sparks alarm Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in HOUSING Homeless advocates raise alarm as St. Paul moves to close three largest encampments Mayor Kaohly Her announced the plan on July 8, citing overdose deaths, crime and other unsafe conditions at the three sites. by Viktorie Spurná July 16, 2026 Updated July 20, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Justin Demico Ford has been living at the Kmart encampment on St. Paul's East Side for two years. Before that he was a manager at Leeann Chin in White Bear Lake. He's seen at the encampment on July 14, 2026. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Advocates who work with St. Paul’s homeless residents are sounding the alarm over a plan by Mayor Kaohly Her to shut down the city’s three largest encampments beginning with the Pig’s Eye camp on Aug. 5. City officials say overdose deaths, fires, reported sexual assaults , an increase in crime and unsafe conditions in the sometimes contaminated sites forced them to act. “These are not sweeps. This has been a gradual, coordinated effort leading up to the closure,” said Matt Wagenius, a spokesman for the mayor. He said Ramsey County teams were on site at the Pig’s Eye camp beginning Tuesday to connect residents to housing and other resources. But those who work directly with residents at the encampments say the closures will put residents at more risk. Two dozen activists showed up at a St. Paul City Council meeting on Wednesday to protest the city’s plan, carrying signs that said “Evictions kill” or “Do you know a single resident’s name?” Several attempted to testify but were cut off because the issue was not on the agenda. “We want to make sure both the council and the mayor's office understand we're not going to accept this, and that we think this is a humanitarian crisis,” Rising Waters Mutual Aid member Linda Voight told Sahan Journal ahead of the meeting. “Evictions, no matter whether you have the resources or not, are never the answer.” Volunteers deliver medical supplies to the Kmart encampment in St. Paul's East Side on Tuesday, July 14, 2026. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Activists, camp residents caught off guard On July 8, the mayor's office announced through a press release that the city would begin closing the encampments. The decision came as a surprise to nonprofit organizations and mutual aid groups that work with unhoused people but also the encampment residents. Her cited concerns over health, safety and human dignity as the reasons for the closures, promising the city would work with its unhoused residents to help them find shelter and housing. The city will begin clearing the sites on Aug. 5 with the Pig’s Eye encampment, which has about 200 residents. Dates have not been announced for the James Avenue encampment near Shepherd Road, which has about 60 residents , and an encampment by L’Orient Street, near a former Kmart, which has approximately 35 residents, according to Rising Waters. Plans to close the Pig Eye’s Park encampment have been in the works since then-Mayor Melvin Carter began planning for it last year, Wagenius, said in an email to Sahan Journal. He said the city’s 35-day notice period is longer than what officials have provided in past encampment closures. “We intentionally extended the timeline to give people more opportunity to access resources, develop a plan, and make a successful transition rather than feeling rushed out,” he said. Michael Russel, has lived in the Kmart encampment on St. Paul's East Side for about five years. He's seen at the camp on July 14, 2026. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Michael Russel, Kmart encampment resident of five years, learned of the planned sweeps a week after the mayor’s announcement through “word of mouth.” While Russel does not know what this will lead to for him, he hopes the city will help him get shelter and health support. At 63, he is struggling with substance abuse and injuries from car accidents he has been in in the past year and a half, while also supporting his nephew who lives in the encampment with him. “I feel bad because I don’t have anywhere else to go,” Russel said. “&#8230; I just pray that God helps us out here.” Kat Hunter, co-founder of Rising Waters Mutual Aid, is skeptical of claims that the city and county can find enough beds for all those who will be displaced and said the closures will isolate people who found community in the encampments and make it harder to get help from nonprofits and mutual aid groups. Rising Waters volunteers deliver food, hygiene items, tents, coolers and other supplies to St. Paul encampments three times a week. “The statistics on overdoses in and around encampment sweeps are horrifying to an extreme degree,” Hunter said. “I think that I will lose friends, and I won't know if it's because they've died, or because they chose to move further into the county, or because I just can't find them.” Justin Lewandowski, director of Open Hands Midway, echoed Hunter’s worries about the housing availability. Lewandowski was among the community partners that learned of the encampment closures a day before the city announcement on a conference call with the mayor. He, and all the other organizers he has been in touch with, were unaware of the city’s plans. “A lot of the [unhoused] folks that I've talked to, [are] just waiting for housing, just waiting for the call,” Lewandowski said. “The coordinated entry system to get into housing takes months, if not years. The shelter programs alone are are bursting in that capacity, and to say that the plan is to provide wraparound services when we have no housing, to say that we're going to work with community partners when many of them who are doing the work directly with our unhoused neighbors were blindsided by this … we could have done so much more.” Currently, there are 2,668 unhoused people who have completed the coordinated entry assessment and are waiting for a housing referral in Ramsey County. Tony Dillworth has been on a waiting list for housing for four years. He's seen at St. Paul's Kmart encampment. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Tony Dillworth has been living in St. Paul encampments for about six years. He has been on the waiting list for housing for four. The city has offered him options that Dillworth was not interested in for a number of reasons, which involved the far distance from his workplace, his partner and living conditions. Minneapolis saw similar hesitation from unhoused residents when it came to accepting shelter the city provided after their sweeps at the end of 2025. Out of 169 people the city offered alternative shelter, only nine accepted. Over the years, Dillworth has also experienced disrespect and harassment from city officials, which fostered even greater distrust in city services. Recently, a law enforcement officer threatened him to throw out all of Dillworth’s belongings in the trash. These included Dillworth’s documents he needed to obtain housing. “If you're not here when they come to the clean-up, they will take all your stuff without thinking about it, not knowing what's valuable to you,” Dillworth said. “They don't check for nothing. If you're not around, they just take [everything]. I would make sure I was here, so they couldn't mess with my stuff.” Another resident of the Kmart encampment, Justin Demico Ford, recently received confirmation that he will get housing. Ford has been living at the camp for two years. Before then, he was a manager at Leeann Chin in White Bear Lake. After getting robbed in downtown St. Paul, Ford lost his job and his housing. Now, Ford is close to getting housing with the help of two nonprofit organizations. “I never had experience trying to get housing from the city,” Ford said. “They never offered their services. But I went through outside sources to help with that situation, and got housing. That's in the works right now without the city's help.” Following Pig’s Eye Park encampment closure in early August, Hunter predicts that people will relocate to the other smaller encampments in the city. The mayor’s office has not yet announced closure dates for the James Avenue and Kmart sites. A Hmong resident carries a bag of ice as he walks to his tent at the Kmart homeless encampment in St. Paul, Minnesota, on July 14, 2026. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Mixed response from City Council Several City Council members have spoken in support of the mayor’s plan to close the three encampments. Council Member Cheniqua Johnson, who represents the ward where the Pig’s Eye Park encampment is located, said in a statement that the encampment had become “unsafe and unsustainable.” In a statement, staffer Silver Moran-Stewart said Johnson was working to balance safety concerns from neighbors with a mandate to make sure encampment residents are “treated with dignity” and connected to housing and support services. Council Member Saura Jost told the Pioneer Press that closing the encampments was “a difficult but necessary decision.” Others had a more conflicted response. Council Member Molly Coleman said in a Facebook post that the encampments were unsafe, but the city needed to balance the harm of uprooting residents with a clear plan to make sure camp residents have housing and support. The City Council will hold a Public Safety Committee workshop on the mayor's encampment plan on Wednesday, July 22, at 12:30. The workshop is not open for public comment, but the Council will hold a special meeting at 4:30 p.m. to take public comment on the plan. Correction: The spelling of Mayor Kaohly Her's name has been updated in this story. READ MORE Winter closes in on residents of St. Paul’s growing Randolph encampment Minnesota attorney general sues two homesellers for allegedly preying on Muslim buyers St. Paul crews move to clear Pig’s Eye encampment, leading to tense moments with volunteers Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Homelessness , Kaoly Her , Ramsey County , St. Paul Viktorie Spurná vspurna@sahanjournal.com Viktorie Spurná is a 2026 summer intern at Sahan Journal. She is a student journalist from the Czech Republic. She studies political science and international studies at Macalester College in St. Paul.... More by Viktorie Spurná Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close