Duluth HRA&#039;s groundbreaking for future homes at Harbor Highlands - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth HRA's groundbreaking for future homes at Harbor Highlands William Lien WDIO --> Duluth HRA's groundbreaking for future homes at Harbor Highlands Duluth HRA's groundbreaking for future homes at Harbor Highlands is one of many phases to bring more senior, affordable and mixed housing to the Duluth area. The Duluth HRA's groundbreaking at Harbor Highlands is part of a multi-phase housing project in Duluth. There are currently two phases of housing projects to bring more senior, affordable and mixed housing to Harbor Highlands. More and more people are looking to make Duluth their home. However, where will people live and can they afford it? Duluth HRA’s Executive Director Jill Keppers says there will be 70 housing units for seniors in Harbor Highlands. After city's groundbreaking there will be an additional 40 more units to the neighborhood next year. "We hope Sky Ridge Flats should open in December. Then the Town Home Project should open in, we hope, June of next year. We have to have at least up by the end of 2025. It is a tax credit project, so there are some tight timelines with that," Keppers said. "Our Town Home Project, which is 40 units of family housing. It's a variety of 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-bedroom houses, which will provide housing for families, as well as 13 of those units will be for households that need supportive services." The townhomes at Harbor Highlands also give housing to people experiencing homelessness, people with disabilities, and senior housing. Jill Keppers says when it comes to future homeownership, don't lose hope. "I think one really important thing, though, is that we continue to build more units, whether that is rental units or homeownership units. All housing is good housing," Keppers said. "Whether we're affordable housing developers or market rate housing developers, we're working together to try to bring that housing to Duluth." The groundbreaking at harbor highlands is more than a symbol for the development of future homes. James Lehnoff, the Minnesota Housing Assistant Commissioner says several affordable housing units can be a spring board for many families. "It is a lot more than turning dirt. It is a huge dose of perseverance to get to this point," Lehnoff said. "For people like me that also grew up in affordable housing in greater Minnesota, it becomes a launching point to a spot you don't even know where you're going to be in 20 years." These two phases of housing at Harbor Highlands will offer mixed income housing to people in need. Roz Randorf with the Duluth City Council says these projects are instrumental to helping residents and families find stable living in Duluth, but more housing is still needed. “When it comes to a housing strategy. We need over 3,500 units of affordable housing. We need it for our households earning $50,000 or less," Randorf said. "Since the completion of that study, we have added 838 units, leaving us still a shortfall of 2,671 units of housing that we desperately need.” Randorf says housing security enhances the quality of life for Duluth residents, and it's pretty clear that there will be plenty of more housing projects for people looking to call Duluth their home For more information about the Section 8 Housing you can read more here . Also for other stories about the Duluth HRA you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth HRA housing William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow