Our View/Endorsement: Vote Randorf to rep diverse district - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Vote Randorf to rep diverse district By News Tribune Editorial Board and Chuck Frederick October 02, 2019 at 12:00 PM Listen Share Share this article In an area of town with everything from low-income hillside efficiencies to palatial Park Point estates, a representative, to be effective, has to be able to bridge broad gaps and relate to widely varying views. Central Duluth’s City Council District 3 can elect just such a representative on Election Day on Nov. 5. Roz Randorf helps fractured sides meet in the middle in her job as a corporate trainer. And she has a business background and views about protecting the environment that make her appealing to both conservatives and progressives. ADVERTISEMENT “I think I’m uniquely positioned,” Randorf said in an interview this fall with the News Tribune Editorial Board. “I can listen and bring diverse voices to the table. I think I am able to take complex issues and cut through to the heart of the matter, succinctly explain it back out, and help us make good decisions. In the end, as a district councilor, I represent all of the people in the district.” Before going to work for Dale Carnegie Training, Randorf worked 27 years in the newspaper industry, including at the Duluth News Tribune. Her positions ranged from sales to management. She also ran the Rose Man, a small shop on Central Entrance. “I understand the needs of businesses,” she said. “And what we need is more representation of business people on the council, so that when we make decisions, we can hear, ‘How will this impact (Duluth’s business community)?’” Last year, during debates over an earned-sick-and-safe-time city policy and over flavored-tobacco sales, many Duluth business operators were left to feel as though decisions were being dictated to them rather than being made with them. “People support the world they help create, and business people right now are not feeling like they’re able to support what is being created,” said Randorf. “We need the right mix of voices at the table.” With that right mix, Duluth can grow its population and tax base, be more thoughtful about how it taxes, and better meet workforce needs. “We need to bring industry in,” Randorf said. “(At the same time), we need to build a city that attracts young, smart talent so that we have a talent pool here. … We’ve got to work on both sides to fix the middle.” ADVERTISEMENT Randorf’s opponent in the race to replace resigning Councilor Em Westerlund is Theresa O’Halloran-Johnson, a county social worker who works with kids with intellectual disabilities. A union activist, she also served on the Clayton Jackson McGhie Memorial Board and the city ‘s earned-sick-and-safe-time task force. “I care about this community, and that’s why I’m running,” she said at a Sept. 24 candidate forum hosted by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. “(My priorities are) housing, housing, housing — and streets. And everyone wants to feel safe in their neighborhoods.” As competent and committed as O’Halloran-Johnson is, eligible voters in central Duluth’s District 3 — no matter what kind of home they live in and no matter where they stand politically — can feel safe about casting their ballots for Randorf. Roz Randorf Share Share this article Tags Tags OUR VIEW DULUTH CITY COUNCIL Listen to this article What To Read Next Subscribers Only Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Keep Hauschild fighting for District 3 2d ago &#183; By the News Tribune Editorial Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsements: Give Simon, Schutz, Filipovich statewide nods 4d ago &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsement: Vote yes with confidence for more school funding Sep 26 &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.