Duluth City Council backs paper mill subsidy despite skeptics - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth City Council backs paper mill subsidy despite skeptics Some questioned whether a profitable multi-national company really needs help to expand its operations in Duluth. A worker moves product while a roll gets wrapped at ST Paper in Duluth on Feb. 16, 2023. The mill was subsequently purchased by Sofidel, an Italian company that is looking to expand its local operations, adding 160 jobs. Jed Carlson / File / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi September 10, 2024 at 8:00 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Plans to provide the Sofidel Group with some help to advance their expansion of a local paper mill garnered support from city councilors Monday, with one exception. At a time when Duluth is considering increases in its local property tax levy, 1st District Councilor Wendy Durrwachter questioned the need to provide a $3 billion multi-national company with tax relief. ADVERTISEMENT She suggested the city should pump the brakes until a more compelling case could be made for a tax subsidy. At large Councilor Arik Forsman referred to Sofidel’s pending expansion as “a fantastic investment in our community.” He noted that a couple years ago, when the mill was temporarily idled, it had an effect on the whole community, not only due to the loss of jobs but also because of the impact it had on local utility rates, with one of the city’s previous largest customers sidelined. Forsman said he couldn’t be happier to see Sofidel stepping up to invest $250 million in the Duluth mill, potentially bringing another 160 jobs to a facility that already employs about 80 workers. While Durrwachter agreed that the additional jobs Sofidel promises to bring to Duluth would be welcome, she again wondered aloud if the company truly needs a tax break to proceed with its local plans. She suggested Duluth might be selling itself short as a desirable location to do business. Durrwachter pointed to the city’s transportation system, with its port and major rail connections, affordable energy, plentiful water, talented labor pool, and rich forest product resources. “They are here, and there is a reason they are here. It’s a desirable place for them to operate this plant,” she said. ADVERTISEMENT During a public comment period, Mark Baker referred to Sofidel as "incredibly profitable" and also urged the council to delay a vote on the creation of a tax-increment financing district to support the project. But 5th District Councilor Janet Kennedy, who represents the neighborhood where the mill is located, advised against risking the loss of a golden opportunity. “I don’t want the perfect to get in the way of the good,” she said. “We need this economic development. I don’t think this is the time to stand back,” Kennedy said. The council’s action Monday allowed for the creation of a new tax-increment financing district to support the project, but an actual development agreement has yet to be finalized. Tax-increment financing is a form of government subsidy that uses new property taxes generated by a project to cover certain qualified development costs for a defined period of time — nine years in this case. ALSO READ Duluth mayor asks City Council to hold line on property taxes Sep 7, 2024 Duluth pushes to restart stalled Lincoln Park housing project Sep 6, 2024 The city is considering a proposal that could provide Sofidel with up to $18.425 million in TIF assistance. Additionally, the city aims to serve as a conduit for $3.1 million in aid through the Minnesota Investment Fund. It also seeks $1.7 million in support from the Minnesota Job Creation Fund, plus another $200,000 in job training funds from the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development. Forsman suggested Duluth should not risk losing out on an opportunity to help Sofidel expand its Duluth operations, especially when other communities would eagerly compete for a similar investment. ADVERTISEMENT “We need to step up when we have the opportunity to do so,” he said. Council President Roz Randorf also spoke in support of the project, which would add 586,000 square feet to the mill’s footprint. The council passed an ordinance in support of creating a new TIF district for the project by an 8-1 margin, with Durrwachter the sole dissenter. more by peter passi Local Don Ness sees nonprofit leadership role as 'dream job' At 52, the former Duluth mayor says he's satisfied to serve his community in a different way. May 20 &#183; By Peter Passi Local Court upholds ruling against Spirit Mountain in coaster injury lawsuit May 4 &#183; By Peter Passi Local St. Louis County replants forest in fire’s wake May 2 &#183; By Peter Passi Subscribers Only Local Opponents again sue Hermantown over proposed data center Apr 29 &#183; By Peter Passi Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MANUFACTURING By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 1d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 1d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.