Duluth residents voice concerns about proposed marijuana ordinance - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth residents voice concerns about proposed marijuana ordinance Nyah Adams WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5186382&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] As marijuana becomes legal on August 1st, the state does not currently have any regulations on where you can or can't smoke. Duluth City Councilors Arik Forsman, Roz Randorf and Terese Tomanek proposed a bill at Monday's city council meeting that would limit where people can smoke pot. The ordinance would prohibit people from smoking at places like the Lakewalk and Park Point Beach. If you get caught smoking in one of these places you'll be faced with a $300 fine as well as a petty misdemeanor. The public had a chance to comment on the proposed bill at the city council meeting. "I think almost everyone in Duluth is in agreement that children and adults should not be subject to secondhand cannabis smoke in our Duluth parks," says one Duluth Resident against the ordinance. " A $300 fine can be very debilitating to many people." The biggest concern is racial and economic disparity. "I'm very concerned that this will disproportion similarly affect black and brown people as it has for decades and and beyond. People of color received a great victory when marijuana was legalized. So I recommend that we just stay with what the state guidelines have been. They are working on regulating it currently and have already put in great regulations." There were also voices on the other hand who expressed concern about second hand smoke. "This is not a political issue but a serious health concern. I feel, we will lose tourists who will concentrate on states that have not legalized marijuana." The ordinance will be voted on August 14th. MGN For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Duluth Parks --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow