Our View / Endorsement: Central Duluth can back business-minded Randorf - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Editorials Our View / Endorsement: Central Duluth can back business-minded Randorf By News Tribune Editorial Board and Chuck Frederick August 01, 2019 at 5:00 AM Listen Share Share this article So often we scream for our politicians to work together, to get along, to find a way. “On the City Council, we need more people that can help polarized sides meet in the middle,” Roz Randorf said in a meeting this summer with the News Tribune Editorial Board. ADVERTISEMENT It’s exactly what Randorf does for a living as a corporate trainer for Dale Carnegie Training. And that’s good news for voters in the center of Duluth because Randorf — with a strong business background and a willingness to consider both conservative and progressive viewpoints — is a candidate to represent District 3 on the Duluth City Council. Voters from Park Point to downtown to the hillside neighborhoods can advance Randorf from the Aug. 13 primary to the general election on Nov. 5. She’s vying to replace Councilor Em Westerlund, who didn’t seek another term. “I have the background. I have the business knowledge. I have the people knowledge. And I have the passion and compassion to really do (the job of councilor),” Randorf said. “We need to build a dynamic economy in Duluth. We need to build more business, more living-wage jobs. … If people are coming to Duluth wanting to move their business here and don’t, we need to know why and fix that. We need more businesses.” More business activity means more tax revenue for Duluth to solve pressing problems like our housing shortage, persistent homelessness, and opioids and addiction. The existing city budget only goes so far, Randorf said. The pie can only be sliced so many times. A bigger pie is what’s needed. “We need more money,” said Randorf, a former News Tribune employee. “So let’s get more businesses in town that pay liveable wages.” There are opportunities to do that along the seaport or by the city more actively partnering with APEX, a regional, privately led force for economic development in Duluth, according to Randorf. Her business background includes running the Rose Man on Central Entrance. “Too many people are one flat tire or one illness away from getting evicted,” Randorf said. “So they have to be earning enough money, because rent is going up, insurance is going up, car insurance, gas is going up, all expenses are going up, and yet their wages aren’t. … It all hinges on, ‘We gotta grow Duluth so we have more liveable-wage jobs.’ Then we can start fixing these other things .” ADVERTISEMENT Others on the Aug. 13 primary-election ballot in District 3 are Henry Banks, a long-time activist and radio-show host who declined to meet with the Editorial Board or to write a commentary about his candidacy; Ryan Glenn, who informed the News Tribune Opinion page on July 5 he had suspended his campaign; and Theresa O’Halloran-Johnson, a St. Louis County social worker who works with children with intellectual disabilities and their families. O’Halloran-Johnson also has volunteered for Hillfest; served on the board for the Clayton Jackson McGhie Memorial; and is active in local politics and with her union, AFSCME. “I love this city and I love what the 3rd District has to offer,” she told Editorial Board members in a separate interview. “I think it’s particularly important that we have a district councilor who takes the approach of wanting to be in the community and part of the community.” That description fits Randorf, too. Her investment in Duluth includes a house built just west of downtown in 2016. “Duluth is in my blood,” she said. “I have a vested interest in Duluth. It’s my home. It’s where I’m retiring.” It’s also where, in November, she can be one of the two candidates to represent District 3 on the Duluth City Council. First, though, central Duluth voters have to back her in the Aug. 13 primary. Roz Randorf Share Share this article Tags Tags OUR VIEW DULUTH CITY COUNCIL Listen to this article What To Read Next Subscribers Only Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Keep Hauschild fighting for District 3 2d ago &#183; By the News Tribune Editorial Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsements: Give Simon, Schutz, Filipovich statewide nods 4d ago &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsement: Vote yes with confidence for more school funding Sep 26 &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.