Randorf to run for Duluth City Council - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Randorf to run for Duluth City Council Roz Randorf announced Monday she will run to represent the 3rd District on the Duluth City Council. Randorf currently works for Dale Carnegie Training and has 25 years of leadership experience, including several previous supervisory positions at ... Roz Randorf By News Tribune April 22, 2019 at 12:51 PM Listen Share Share this article Roz Randorf announced Monday she will run to represent the 3rd District on the Duluth City Council. Randorf currently works for Dale Carnegie Training and has 25 years of leadership experience, including several previous supervisory positions at the News Tribune and Forum Communications, its parent company. ADVERTISEMENT In a statement announcing her candidacy, Randorf wrote: "I love Duluth and look forward to supporting economic growth, housing, public safety, quality streets, child care resources and the needs of our senior citizens. Growing our business community will bring jobs to the Northland, and this will help support everyone throughout Duluth." Randorf is the second candidate to enter the race for Duluth's 3rd District seat. Theresa O'Halloran-Johnson, a St. Louis County social worker, joined the race a few weeks ago. Incumbent 3rd District Councilor Em Westerlund announced earlier she will not seek a second term. Randorf has two sons - one a Duluth Public Schools student and another a local police officer. Randorf said she plans to formalize her announcement by launching her campaign from the steps of City Hall at 5:15 p.m. Thursday. Share Share this article Listen to this article What To Read Next News Why supporting local journalism matters to your community Sep 25 &#183; By Kris Hauge ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.