Duluth votes to develop 63 acres, leave 207 of Lester Park Golf Course - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth votes to develop 63 acres, leave 207 of Lester Park Golf Course By WDIO --> Duluth votes to develop 63 acres, leave 207 of Lester Park Golf Course Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team The Duluth City Council decided to leave 207 acres of Lester Park undeveloped, following the recommendation of a recent land use study and setting aside 63 acres of the massive, abandoned golf course aside for neighborhood mixed-use space development. The decision is something of a compromise after months of community resistance as Duluth attempts to find one solution to its housing problem. In the land use study, Neighborhood Mixed Use zoning is described as a transition between commercial and residential neighborhoods, which could include conversions of houses to offices or live-work spaces. The rest of the park will be designated as a type of open space zone called P-1. City councilors discussed placing more protections on the park later, but for now, there are still "nice protections" that come with the P-1 designation, said City Counselor Ros Randorf. There are certain things that can't be built on it and it can't be transferred into the hands of a developer. Multiple city councilors expressed a desire to protect the city's greenspace. "All of these lands are very, very important to our city. We are so fortunate to have about 25% of our lands as open space," said City Councilor Diane Desotelle. "And I can tell you that studies have been done, that cities that don't have this, don't have better water quality, don't have the diversity of habitat, don't have the happiness index feature that humans need." The city doesn't yet know how much it will cost taxpayers to build the infrastructure for those 63 developed acres. City Councilor Wendy Durrwachter urged the council to consider how local overflowing schools would handle more students. For Related Stories: Lester Park Golf Course Alex Haddon Duluth Duluth City Council Lester Park --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow