City Council approves tourism marketing contract - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture City Council approves tourism marketing contract By WDIO --> Councilors vote on Marketing Contract Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team During their December 9 meeting, Duluth City Councilors approved a contract between the city and Madden Media for tourism marketing. With the current contract expiring, the city put out a request for proposal (RFP) for agencies wanting a chance to promote the city to prospective visitors. One contentious point for some is the fact that Madden Media is based out of Tucson, Arizona. Other Duluth and Minnesota based firms did submit proposals, and city officials did give local agencies an advantage when it came to scoring, however, Madden came out on top. Several Councilors expressed disappointment at the fact that local firm didn't win, but they did honor the results. "I'm not personally happy with the outcome of the firm that was selected based on their geographic status," said Councilor Arik Forsman, "I can't argue with their qualifications though." Council President Roz Randorf was particularly vocal about an out-of-town agency being awarded the contract saying that it "undermines local expertise and siphons money and jobs away." However, as Madden did win the proposal process, the city's legal team advised the council that rejecting their winning bid could result in legal action &#8211; a fact Randorf said effectively tied the hands of the council. "I don't feel I can sit here and have the luxury to say no, even though I'd want to. We can't because we are officers of the city to do this and do this work right." President Randorf said. The council approved the contract on a 8-1 vote, with Councilor Wendy Durrwachter voting against the measure, citing concerns with the fairness surrounding the RFP procedure. The contract will be in effect for 2025-2026, and is worth up to $3.6 million. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow