Duluth City Council holds special meeting to talk "Right to Repair" and an alternative - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council holds special meeting to talk "Right to Repair" and an alternative By WDIO --> Duluth City Council holds special meeting to talk "Right to Repair" and an alternative The Duluth City Council met for a special meeting to discuss a new ordinance put forth by Duluth Tenants and a possible alternative. The Duluth City Council met Thursday June 26th for a special meeting to discuss a new ordinance put forth by Duluth Tenants (formerly known as the Duluth Tenant's Union). Two weeks ago, Duluth Tenant's collected almost 6,000 signatures for their "Right to Repair" ordinance which would require landlords to schedule a repair within 14 days of being notified by a tenant. A separate ordinance tackling the same issue was also on the agenda. The other ordinance would amend city code to add training for landlords, notification requirements for tenants, and timely repairs from landlords. 3rd District Councilor Roz Randorf advocating for the ordinance to amend city code over the "Right to Repair" ordinance, warning that there may be blind spots in Duluth Tenant's "Right to Repair". "Ordinance 15, Duluth Right to Repair puts our tenants in the legal crosshairs," said Councilor Randorf. "It shifts the burden to 100% liability for potential property damage repair liability and breach of lease terms back under the tenants that's not protection that's exposure." 1st District Councilor Wendy Durwachter on the other hand arguing in favor of the "Right to Repair ordinance". "Tenants do have protections already under the state of Minnesota," said Councilor Durwachter. "I think that should be considered. Before that scare tactic is used in choosing these ordinances." Duluth Tenants sent out a statement following the City Council meeting expressing concerns with the ordinance to amend the city code, urging councilors to vote for the "Right to Repair". “All of us deserve safe, dignified homes. But right now, too many Duluth renters are living with broken stoves, leaky ceilings, and windows that won't shut — because the systems in place aren't working. Duluth Right to Repair is about acting early, not waiting for a crisis. It’s the kind of practical, commonsense solution Duluthians deserve. Next week, the Council will have a choice: either support the nearly 6,000 Duluthians who have already made it clear: we need a tool that actually works. Or continue to propose a weaker alternative that relies on the same inspection systems that renters already know are overwhelmed and can take months to reach their homes. To Duluthians, that choice is clear: the Duluth City Council should vote to pass Duluth Right to Repair.” The Duluth City Council will have another special meeting on these two ordinances this upcoming Tuesday July 1st. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow