Budget cuts looming for Duluth departments - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Budget cuts looming for Duluth departments Darren Danielson WDIO --> There are a few phrases in the english language that will really get the attention of most citizens. One is tax increases, another is budget cuts. Budget cuts were being wrestled with at Thursday night's agenda session in the Duluth City Council chambers. [anvplayer video="5173541&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] All city departments are getting a 0.36% budget cut across the board under the current proposal. The largest department cuts in terms of dollars would be both police and fire departments. Department heads, such as Fire Chief Shawn Krizaj spoke to how difficult further cuts will be, to already stretched departments trying their best to provide needed services. "I don't think there is any safe cut to the fire department. That being said, there are no safe cuts to any department. This will reduce our staffing," Krizaj told the City Finance Committee. Krizaj added, "We talk about safe staffing levels of four people per rig. We already have three stations in town that don't meet that recommendation." With these decisions so critical to managing operations of the city, moving forward with only temporary federal money was a clear concern to Finance Committee Chair, Roz Randorf. "Can you imagine my surprise when cuts were announced on Thursday and broadcast on TV before the council got a chance to hear what they were specifically. This committee was even more surprised when we received an email from Mayor Larson on Monday asking us to reverse our decision made in December and instead use $382,000 of American Rescue Act money over four months into the fiscal year," said Randorf. The proposed budget cuts will come before the full Council again next week. The City of Duluth Finance committee wrestled with looming budget cuts during Thursday night's council agenda session. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Duluth Fire Department Duluth Police Department --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow