Duluth seeks rent relief for families impacted by immigration crackdown - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth seeks rent relief for families impacted by immigration crackdown Councilors declined to call for an eviction moratorium. The Duluth City Hall entrance. Peter Passi / Duluth Media Group file photo By Peter Passi February 24, 2026 at 9:33 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — The human toll of recent federal immigration enforcement efforts is not lost on Ken Loeffler-Kemp, who made an impassioned plea to city councilors for help Monday night. He noted that some of his fellow members at Local 66 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees have been actively targeted during Operation Metro Surge and said, “They’re afraid to leave their homes. They’re unable to work. And they’re facing possible eviction from their homes.” ADVERTISEMENT An emotional Loeffler-Kemp went on to say, “These workers and their families just need a little time and a little help to get through this. They need a brief pause from evictions, together with some rental assistance. They need both.” Duluth city councilors acknowledged the need to help impacted families, but disagreed as to what form it should take. Councilors considered two paths Monday. ICE IN MINNESOTA: What led to Operation Metro Surge? A Truth Council hearing was held in Rochester to answer that question 4d ago ICE agent charged in non-fatal Minneapolis shooting appears for federal charges Sep 18 2,300 immigrants arrested in Operation Metro Surge were deported or left country Sep 15 Reports: Federal prosecutors charge ICE agent with false statements in Minnesota shooting Sep 3 They agreed to ask Gov. Tim Walz to provide $50 million in rental assistance for households across the state that have lost income as a result of the recent immigration crackdown in Minnesota. But they stopped short of calling for a temporary moratorium on evictions of affected families. Barb Montee, a local landlord, warned of the “unintended consequences” an eviction moratorium could yield, pointing to the fallout that occurred when a similar policy was enacted during the pandemic. She noted that many tenants who fell behind on rent back then struggled to get current after the moratorium had expired, only to face an even greater threat to their housing stability as the health crisis eased. Nevertheless, councilors David Clanaugh and Wendy Durrwachter proposed a resolution advocating for the state to offer a temporary eviction moratorium in conjunction with $50 million in rental assistance. ADVERTISEMENT Durrwachter stressed that rental assistance remains a key component of any relief package, pointing out that this funding would help ensure landlords are eventually repaid for any overdue rent. She also expressed concerns that confusion and bureaucratic inefficiencies could delay the delivery of financial assistance to impacted households, putting them at risk of becoming homeless during the interim. Durrwachter suggested a temporary moratorium could provide the extra time tenants need to access financial relief, avoiding unnecessary evictions. “If we don’t step up and protect the people currently in the crosshairs of this ICE violence, eventually that violence will reach all of us,” Clanaugh warned. “Now is the time to push back alongside the most vulnerable among us,” he said. Yet Clanaugh’s and Durrwachter’s resolution failed on a 7-2 vote, with support only from its authors. MORE LOCAL NEWS Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass 1d ago Analysts believe polls show ‘thin margins’ for upcoming elections 2d ago Instead, the body unanimously passed a separate resolution offered by Councilors Jordon Johnson and Lynn Marie Nephew. This stripped-down measure called for $50 million in rent assistance for households impacted by the recent immigration enforcement push, but absent any eviction moratorium. Councilor Roz Randorf noted that key leaders working in the city’s affordable and supportive housing sector do not favor an eviction moratorium and said, “That really matters to me, when I researched this. They’re the ones helping the tenants. They’re the ones processing assistance. They’re the ones working directly every day with systems of support. And they’re raising concerns. We should take that seriously.” ADVERTISEMENT Councilor Arik Forsman said he, too, has listened to affordable housing providers who have weighed in against an eviction moratorium. But he also expressed his opinion that offering simple financial support likely would be most expedient. “There’s nobody up here who’s going to vote against the fact that we have to do something as a state to help with what’s happening in the Cities. And rental assistance is the fastest path that I’ve heard of from my research,” Forsman said. About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH CITY COUNCIL IMMIGRATION HOUSING ICE IN MINNESOTA By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 1d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local One hurt, one in custody after stabbing in Beaver Bay 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 1d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.