Randorf wins second term on Duluth City Council - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Randorf wins second term on Duluth City Council The 3rd District candidate ran unopposed. Roz Randorf By Peter Passi November 07, 2023 at 8:00 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — There wasn’t much drama in this year’s City Council race to represent Duluth’s 3rd District, where Roz Randorf ran for a second term unopposed. Perhaps no one was more surprised by the sparsity of the field of candidates than Randorf, who said: “I was shocked because I was ready to have an opponent.” ADVERTISEMENT While this election cycle has been rather anticlimactic for Randorf, she said it has been far different for the city as a whole. “What a big race this has been, with so many seats on the council up for election and the mayor’s race being so close,” she said. “It will be interesting to see who I’m working with next year.” Randorf takes some encouragement from her lack of an opponent, saying it seems like a sign that people think she is doing a decent job. “But the 3rd District is also a hard district. Think of it. You’ve got downtown. You’ve got Park Point, and a lot of the issues we talk about end up being in my district. And it is difficult. The downtown has been a lot of work with the task force. We need to reinvigorate it. We need to remobilize. We need more people. We need more housing,” Randorf said. With the turmoil of the election behind, Randorf said she’s ready to return to business. “I’ll certainly be happy and grateful to be in my seat again and to work for the people of the 3rd District,” she said. MORE ON THE ELECTION Painful decisions ahead for Minnesota school districts after failed levies Nov 21, 2023 Voter turnout rebounds in Duluth's latest election Nov 14, 2023 Roundup: Breaking down a busy week of Minnesota politics Nov 10, 2023 Judge dismisses complaint of campaign violation in Duluth mayoral race Nov 9, 2023 Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS ELECTION 2023 By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 1d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 1d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.