Randorf promoted to FCC vice president of advertising - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Business Randorf promoted to FCC vice president of advertising FARGO -- Forum Communications Co. has announced that Roz Randorf has been promoted to vice president of advertising. In this new company role, she will be responsible for leading sales strategy and product positioning to help drive revenue progra... Roz Randorf By news@duluthnewstribune.com March 11, 2014 at 11:00 PM Listen Share Share this article FARGO -- Forum Communications Co. has announced that Roz Randorf has been promoted to vice president of advertising. In this new company role, she will be responsible for leading sales strategy and product positioning to help drive revenue programs throughout Forum Communciations' three dozen media markets in the Upper Midwest. She will continue to work in the Fargo headquarters and report to President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Marcil Jr. ADVERTISEMENT "Roz has shaped this role over the last six months, and has exceeded my expectations," Marcil said. "I am excited to have her on our VP team to help align our company for the future." Randorf returned to work at Forum Communications Co. headquarters as the advertising director in October. She has held a number of advertising roles over the past 23 years, including leading sales through her work as advertising director at the Duluth News Tribune, a Forum Communications newspaper. Randorf joined The Forum of Fargo-Moorhead newspaper in 1990, beginning as a classified advertising sales representative and has worked her way through the advertising departments. "I am so honored to be named vice president of advertising during the most exciting time in our industry, a time when we can engage large and very targeted audiences on the Web," Randorf said. Share Share this article Listen to this article What To Read Next Business Property Transactions for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Business Bankruptcies for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Business Analysts believe polls show ‘thin margins’ for upcoming elections 2d ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.