Breaking the winter ground for Duluth&#039;s Incline Village construction - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Breaking the winter ground for Duluth's Incline Village construction By WDIO --> Breaking the winter ground for Duluth's Incline Village construction City officials and project developers gathered for a groundbreaking of Duluth's Incline Village construction, which is estimated to bring over 1,300 new housing units. The Duluth Incline Village construction is officially underway. The construction management firm, and developer's owner representative, ICS celebrated a groundbreaking Wednesday, Dec. 10th. The construction site is where the Duluth Central High school once stood over looking the city. There will be more than 1,300 housing units planned to be built over the next few years. On the one hand the project is estimated to cost half of a billion dollars. On the other hand, there will be more than just housing units added to the Duluth Central Hillside neighborhoods, with over 80,000 square feet of retail space. There's even plans for over 200 units of senior housing that will be made available before 2030. Jeff Schiltz, the Business Development Executive at ICS says the Duluth incline village construction has already started. Down by the old football field, there will be 70-unit condominium building, which should be completed in the summer of 2026. “The development will also be including retail space, about 80,000 square feet in retail space. It will also include public amenity space with a trailhead and a public pavilion," Schiltz said. "I'm proud to say that the developer's giving up some of his private property to allow the loot to take advantage of continued use of this wonderful piece of property with the public amenity space.” Matt Baumgartner, the Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce President, says housing projects like the Incline Village will provide more homes to future residents in the Twin Ports. "This is economic development, improved business conditions, and community progress. This really is going to make Duluth the best place to raise children," Baumgartner said. "This is economic development, improved business conditions, and community progress. And this really is going to make Duluth the best place to raise children." The Incline Village construction project will also provide over 220 units for senior housing. The entire housing development has three phases, but the project is anticipated to be finished by June of 2029. Dulluth City Council President Roz Randorf said months ago the seven out of the eight councilors agreed to use tax-increment financing to make Incline Village an opportunity for more housing in Duluth. "It is such a privilege to stand here today as we celebrate this exciting groundbreaking. Projects like Incline Village, they don't happen by chance," Randorf said. "They happen because of hard work, because of collaboration and shared commitment to the process." For more information about the Duluth Incline Village construction you can read more here . Also for other stories about the Duluth Incline Village housing development you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth housing Incline Village William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow