Randorf named News Tribune ad director - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Business Randorf named News Tribune ad director Roz Randorf will be promoted to advertising director for the Duluth News Tribune on Monday. She will replace Aaron Becher, who has been named advertising director of the Forum of Fargo-Moorhead, a sister newspaper within Forum Communications. Ran... By news@duluthnewstribune.com April 14, 2009 at 11:00 PM Listen Share Share this article Roz Randorf will be promoted to advertising director for the Duluth News Tribune on Monday. She will replace Aaron Becher, who has been named advertising director of the Forum of Fargo-Moorhead, a sister newspaper within Forum Communications. ADVERTISEMENT Randorf has served as retail advertising manager for the News Tribune since September 2006. Before arriving in Duluth, Randorf worked as publisher of the West Fargo Pioneer, Fargo-Moorhead Magazine and Midweek, a weekly shopper. From 2000 to 2004, she served as advertising director and sales manager of Forum Communications' Interactive Media Group, where she helped develop new revenue and growth strategies. Randorf has been a Forum employee since 1990, and has worked a wide array of jobs in sales. She currently serves as vice chairwoman for the Greater Downtown Council and previously served as treasurer of the FM Advertising Federation. Share Share this article Listen to this article What To Read Next Business Property Transactions for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Business Bankruptcies for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Business Analysts believe polls show ‘thin margins’ for upcoming elections 2d ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.