Duluth City Council Vote - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council Vote Amanda Eke WDIO --> Duluth Public Library (WDIO) Today, Monday February 27 th , Duluth City Council held their public meeting. One of the biggest agenda items was the partnership with the Duluth Library Foundation on a process for a community- informed predesign for conversion of the Downtown Library to a multi-purpose, regional community service center. Three resolutions were voted on during the meeting outlining this partnership. 1) A Memorandum of Understanding with the Duluth Library Foundation to fund half of the community engagement and pre-design processes. 2) A contract with NEOO Partners for community engagement 3) A contract with MSR and the Duluth office of LHB for architectural design services related to the pre-design. Tonight, all three resolutions for the library passed, with voting, 6-0 in favor and 3 absent, so the project is a go. Council-woman Roz Randorf tells us, "It's important that this is a community informed decision and people continue to weigh in." We'll keep you updated as this project develops&#8230; For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Duluth Library Foundation --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow