Former Councilor Endorses Roz - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Former Councilor Endorses Roz Published November 03, 2019 at 3:14 AM Listen Share Share this article This letter is paid content. Having represented the Third District, I understand the qualities needed to be an effective councilor. That’s why I’m voting for Roz Randorf to represent us on the council. Roz, while new to politics, isn’t new to community involvement. A master gardener, who’s adopted a park for pollinator plants, she serves on the DECC board, and volunteers regularly in her neighborhood. As a widow and single mom, Roz knows what it’s like to experience and overcome barriers. A trainer with Dale Carnegie, her job aligns with her unique ability to meet people where they’re at; and agree or disagree without destroying relationships. The Council needs her. ADVERTISEMENT Working with Roz, I’ve witnessed her compassion and heart, combined with her strong work ethic and practicality. Her stands on issues like clean water, affordable housing, wages and economic development are progressive, combined with good business sense. She does her homework. She’s an independent thinker who puts people first. These days, politics, especially at the national level, can be disheartening. We have the opportunity locally, to do much better. On November 5th, we can elect a person who practices the politics of decency and inclusiveness. That person is Roz Randorf. Sincerely, Sharla Gardner The writer represented the Third District on the Duluth City Council from 2008 to 2016. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.