Our View/Endorsement: Duluth tenants can protect themselves by voting 'no' - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Sunday, October 4 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Subscribers Only Opinion Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Duluth tenants can protect themselves by voting 'no' From the editorial: "The current process ... puts the onus on landlords, while 'right to repair' leaves tenants vulnerable." Jeff Koterba/Cagle Cartoons By the News Tribune Editorial Board October 14, 2025 at 9:33 AM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? No one disagrees that every renter in Duluth “deserves safe and dignified homes,” as an advocate for a ballot measure in the Nov. 4 election said at a forum this fall . But that ballot measure , as well intentioned as it may be, actually threatens to jeopardize federal housing grants that now flow into Duluth, could leave the city in a lurch if problems arise (and don’t they always?), and promises to put tenants in the crosshairs of legal action and even evictions if it passes. ADVERTISEMENT To protect Duluth’s 35,000-some renters , voters can resoundingly say “no” to the so-called “right to repair” question on their ballot. And Duluth renters can instead embrace and educate themselves on the existing state law and on the city ordinances passed this summer to protect and assist renters when repairs aren’t being made and landlords aren’t responding. “The premise of your entire ballot measure puts the tenant in danger,” Duluth City Councilor Roz Randorf said at the forum in Canal Park, which was hosted and moderated by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. “If damage occurs during the repair process or if a contractor hired to work, through this system, causes harm, tenants themselves are liable, facing lawsuits, facing debt (and) even eviction. And they have to front the money to do this. Which tenants, who are running on a shoestring budget, can now find the money to make repairs? That’s not protection; that’s a trap. … “Tenants deserve real solutions, not feel-good measures. Let’s not leave them exposed.” The ballot measure would allow renters to make or arrange for repairs if the landlord doesn’t respond to a problem within 14 days. Tenants also would be allowed to withhold up to a half month’s rent or $500, whichever is greater, to pay for repairs and deduct the cost from future rent payments. Sounds good, right? But what responsible, liability-conscious contractor is going to work on a property without the owner’s/landlord’s authorization? And if whoever ends up making the repair inadvertently causes damage or makes things worse, the landlord/owner could take legal action against the tenant. In communities with “right to repair,” tenants have been on the losing end of plenty of such cases. “Let’s protect the tenants (instead),” Randorf said. “Let’s not put them in jeopardy. … We have one of the strongest states for tenant protections.” A strong state law, new city ordinances, and a Tenant Landlord Connection program are all already in place to support Duluth renters and to ensure timely repairs are made to apartments and other rental units. Rather than taking repair matters into their own hands, renters can now contact Life Safety officials in City Hall. Landlords already are required to respond within 14 days and take action — or risk penalties, even possibly losing their rental licenses. ADVERTISEMENT The current process — and the new city ordinances in particular — puts the onus on landlords, while “right to repair” leaves tenants vulnerable. And if the current process isn’t working, if tweaks are needed, simple votes of the City Council can make changes. “Right to repair,” meanwhile, because it would be created via a petition drive and a vote from the electorate, could only be changed by another door-to-door, signature-gathering undertaking and another approved ballot question. “Let’s lean on the City Council. Let’s make the city — yeah, you got to call the city — but let’s make the city responsible and Life Safety responsible for this. Let’s not make our tenants litigants,” Randorf said. “Let’s do this under a controllable, under a changeable, (and) under the policymakers that we currently have and the machine that’s here in Duluth. … Our Life Safety Division can enforce it. Our landlords can be held responsible.” Despite the abundant risk of unintended consequences, “right to repair” may be a winner with voters. Who’s going to cast a ballot against a “common-sense tool in renters’ toolboxes to get their repairs done,” as DyAnna Grondahl of the statewide nonprofit TakeAction Minnesota said at the forum, ignoring the pitfalls and leaving the impression renters have no recourse currently? Especially “with leaks that can turn into mold or with rats scurrying across the floor,” as Grondahl also said, making an effectively emotional argument while speaking on behalf of the 2-year-old Duluth Tenants group? Voters who take the time to dig deeper surely will vote “no.” But will enough voters go beyond the eye-catching lawn signs produced by a well-organized campaign that now dot Duluth front yards? Our city’s renters can hope so. “The ballot measure takes a dangerous detour,” Randorf said. “By pushing repairs into the tenants’ hands, it creates the illusion of control, but (there’s) no real protection. If something goes wrong during a repair, tenants could face lawsuits, crushing debt, or even eviction. That isn't empowerment. That's exposure.” ADVERTISEMENT NOTE: This editorial was updated on Oct. 16 to correct the number of renters in Duluth. READ MORE IN OPINION Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 12h ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 12h ago Editorial cartoon for Sunday, Oct. 4, 2026 16h ago Reader's View: Help at portage was appreciated 18h ago Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 1d ago Editorial cartoon for Saturday, Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags OUR VIEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY ELECTION 2025 DULUTH CITY COUNCIL HOUSING By the News Tribune Editorial Board “Our View” editorials in the News Tribune are the opinion of the newspaper as determined by its Editorial Board. Current board members are Publisher Neal Ronquist, Editorial Page Editor Chuck Frederick, and Employee Representative Kris Vereecken. Listen to this article What To Read Next Columns Candidate's View: Experience ensures northern voices will be heard in St. Paul 2d ago &#183; By Aaron Kania Subscribers Only Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Keep Hauschild fighting for District 3 2d ago &#183; By the News Tribune Editorial Board Subscribers Only Cartoons Editorial cartoon for Friday, Oct. 2, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Christopher Weyant ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.