Council asks State to provide assistance to those impacted by metro Surge - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Council asks State to provide assistance to those impacted by metro Surge By WDIO --> Duluthians look on during a City Council meeting on February 23 (WDIO) During a busy Duluth City Council meeting, members of the body voted on many issues, from everyday funding for lead pipe replacement and road construction, to weighing in on how the state has been impacted by Operation Metro Surge. Two separate resolutions were in front of councilors regarding how to help those impacted by ICE operations, namely through rental assistance &#8211; not through city policy, but rather through a motion to formally ask the State Government to provide funds to those affected by Metro Surge. It stems from those who say they can't pay rent, afraid to leave their homes for work for fear of encountering immigration officials. Both resolutions asked for the state government for assistance to help such people, but one asked for an eviction moratorium to be put in place statewide. It was supported by Councilors Wendy Durrwachter and David Clanaugh, and many, but not all, citizens who addressed the council at the start of the meeting. "The eviction moratorium is to ensure that there's enough time to get the financial assistance to the applicants because social workers have taught me that it sometimes takes a month or two," Durrwachter said, "No one should be displaced." The moratorium idea however, proved unpopular with other members of the council, who argued it would cause more issues for renters long-term. "A moratorium does not erase rent," noted Councilor Roz Randorf, "It delays the process while rent continues to occur. And that can lead a tenant with significant back rent, with damaged credit, making future housing even harder to secure." In the end, Councilors unanimously voted to approve the measure without the moratorium, after the resolution that included it failed by a vote of 2-7. The council also unanimously voted to pass an ordinance changing the city code, and formally add language regarding Duluth's position on federal immigration enforcement, stating in effect, that it's the federal government's responsibility to enforce their civil immigration laws, not the city's. More information about the Duluth City Council, including agendas, meeting schedules, and full meeting replays, can be found on their website . --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow