City Council OK&#039;s pay raise, tenant repair ballot - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture City Council OK's pay raise, tenant repair ballot Alex Sapp WDIO --> Council votes for pay raise Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team During its last meeting of July, the Duluth City Council took up a number of issues. Taking up a lion's share of the discussion was a resolution that would result in a pay raise for councilors. Last raised in 2018, the move was recommended by the City Charter Commission, a body independent of the council, to keep pace with inflation. Currently, council members receive $1150 per month, while the commission recommended that be raised to $1425. Many councilors did worry about the optics of voting to give themselves a raise, especially amid what city officials have called a very challenging budget year. "Approving a pay increase for elected officials amid such financial constraints sends the wrong message to taxpayers and the city workforce especially when we're being asked to consider perhaps program cuts and delayed infrastructure improvements," noted Councilor Roz Randorf, "Leadership must begin with shared sacrifice and shared credibility." Others framed it as an equity issue, believing that the compensation is important, to allow Duluthians of all income levels the opportunity to serve on the council. "There are people that need to take the bus to get here or pay for gas for their car. There are people that need to pay a babysitter," explained Council President Terese Tomanek, "We don't want this body to be only made up of people that can afford to do this and not get paid equitably." After much discussion, councilors did vote unanimously for the pay increase, though decided it wouldn't kick in until 2027. Several spoke in support of giving the Charter Commission the power to set the level of compensation for both the council, and the mayor, to avoid any perceived conflicts of voting for their own financial compensation, something many councilors voiced discomfort with. Other agenda items included the "right-to-repair" ordinance that's been the subject of much public debate. Put forward by a petition organized by Duluth Tenants, the measure will now appear on the ballot in November for Duluthians to decide on. Another resolution that was adopted clears the way for city staff to start the negotiation phase with New York-based Eden Renewables, which could result in a solar farm being built in a city owned field near Hawk Ridge in East Duluth. Councilors also discussed the creation of a Transportation Commission that would study and make policy recommendations regarding the city's infrastructure. Tabled at the prior council meeting at the request of the city administration in order to make changes to the ordinance's language, councilors left it there, and a vote is expected in August. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow