A tax levy and the city - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture A tax levy and the city Amanda Eke WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5151338&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Concerns over rising property taxes have had citizens up in arms, so much so that it has caused city council to rethink and shrink the proposed size of local levy next year. Concerned citizens of the community came out in full force tonight to express their opinions on this levy. “I'd like to focus on a specific area of the city budget that is proposed to be raised, which is the Duluth Police Department. In the summer of 2020, over 3000 signers of a petition had three asks of the City of Duluth in regards to the toll of police department. One was a crisis Response team. One was a racial bias audit. We are asking that taxpayer funds do not go towards expanding the Duluth police department, when the city is working on an alternative Crisis Response Team,” says Cassie Brewer, a local citizen. At a council agenda session meeting Thursday, councilwoman Roz Randorf said she proposed to make permanent reductions in city spending rather than relying on Covid- relief funds to temporarily buy down the levy. When asked what would be cut to help trim to get to 2%, here’s what councilwoman Randorf said. "Salaries and wages. And so my proposal looks at 35 open positions within the city. And we're proposing a hiring freeze on 6 to 8 of those positions to get to the 766,000 reduction that the 2% levy decrease will need,” says Randorf. A levy amendment also would make changes in ordinance setting the budget for the upcoming fiscal year, and appropriating funds to city operations. As of news time, Counselor Randorf's amendment to make permanent reductions in city spending has been voted down. Looking towards more amendments as the night goes on. Tax Levy City Counsel Meeting (WDIO) --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow