A plan is in the works to help pay for and maintain outdoor spaces and facilities in Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture A plan is in the works to help pay for and maintain outdoor spaces and facilities in Duluth Shalon Monroe WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5159188&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Like many places in the Northland, Duluth relies on tourism and the revenue that comes along with it, and making sure that they are up to date and in good condition is key. City council member Roz Randorf shares how renewing an extension of the sales tax system can help to provide funds to maintain and provide upgrades to some of the amenities. "The half and half tax and the reason why they call it half and half. It's a half percent sales tax on food and beverage, it's a half percent sales tax on hotel motels. So you can imagine when you're doing restaurant food and beverage and when you're doing hotel motel, primarily, that's outsiders coming in. That's visitors coming to Duluth. And it's in the form of a sales tax. So what they're eating and drinking taxes a half percent, you go to maintain our outdoor spaces, tourist related amenities that we've built, and we can maintain them for their enjoyment and for the citizens of Duluth." The renewal of the extension could generate up to 36 million dollars to improve public athletic facilities to support sports tourism and quality of life in Duluth. It would be extending a current food and beverage tax. "The half-and-half tax is a half percent tax on lodging and food and beverage for tourists and locals that come and eat and drink in our bars and restaurants. The half-and-half tax and the benefits of it are that it helps reduce the tax burden, the property tax burden of our citizens by really tapping it and leveraging the money that's being spent by our tourists to be able to reinvest in our infrastructure," said Randorf. Those visiting Duluth would help some outdoor spaces like parks and sports facilities. "A big part of what this half and half tax goes to is making sure our sports facilities are state of the art so that when they come here, we can get more tournaments, we can increase the number of people that come here so we can increase our stays, we can increase the money that they spend here, the things that they purchase, whether it's food or beverage or equity. We can reinvest that into our community, Randorf explains. Now with the approval, Randorf shares the next few steps that have to happen before the proposal can go into effect. "The first thing is that it goes to the state legislature. They then approve it, come back, and then we can actually we have some latitude to be able to approve or disapprove some of the nuances of the legislation." For Related Stories: Duluth Tourism Industry --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow