                          City of Colorado Springs                                                 City Hall
                                                                                         107 N. Nevada Avenue
                                         Meeting Minutes                                 Colorado Springs, CO

                                            City Council                                            80903

                            City Council meetings are broadcast live on Channel 18. In         Council Chambers
                          accordance with the ADA, anyone requiring an auxiliary aid to
                           participate in this meeting should make the request as soon

                           as possible but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled
                            event. Documents created by third parties may not meet all

                                                       accessibility criteria.

Tuesday, March 10, 2026   9:00 AM

     How to Watch the Meeting

     Coloradosprings.gov/springstv | Facebook Live: Colorado Springs City Council
     Facebook Page @coscity Council | SPRINGS TV - Comcast Channel 18 / 880 (HD)
     - Stratus IQ Channel 76 / 99 (Streaming)
     How to Comment on Agenda Items

     Before the meeting, you may email general comments for items not on the agenda or
     comments regarding agenda items to: allcouncil@coloradosprings.gov
     Estimated agenda item times are provided for planning purposes and do not constitute
     notice of a specific time for any item. Items may take more or less time than estimated.
     City Council may amend the order of items.
1. Call to Order and Roll Call

                                President Crow-Iverson called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM.

                     Present: 9 - Councilmember Tom Bailey, President Lynette Crow-Iverson,
                                          Councilmember Dave Donelson, Councilmember Kimberly Gold,
                                          Councilmember Nancy Henjum, Councilmember David Leinweber,
                                          Councilmember Roland Rainey Jr., President Pro Tem Brian Risley, and
                                          Councilmember Brandy Williams

2. Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance

                                The Invocation was made by Pastor Pat Hartsock from the First
                                Presbyterian Church.

                                President Crow-Iverson led the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Changes to Agenda/Postponements

                                There were no changes to the Agenda.
4. Consent Calendar

City of Colorado Springs  Page 1                                                         Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                              March 10, 2026

These items will be acted upon as a whole, unless a specific item is called for
discussion by a Councilmember or a citizen wishing to address the City Council.
(Any items called up for separate consideration shall be acted upon following the
Mayor's Business.)

4A. Second Presentation:

4A.A. 26-064              Ordinance No. 26-05 Amending Section 108 (Regulation of Electric,
                          Streetlight, Natural Gas, Water and Wastewater Rates, Charges and
                          Regulations) of Article 1 (General Provisions) of Chapter 12 (Utilities)
                          of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, as Amended,
                          Regarding Utility Rates

                                     Presenter:
                                   Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities
                                   Renee Congdon, Utilities Division Chief, City Attorney's Office

                   Attachments: CC presentation-Code Changes 12-1-108 regarding process for
                                       changing rate
                                       CSU-UtilityRates-ORD-2026-01-28
                                       Redline and explanation of changes to Rate Process for U Board
                                       Rules and Procedures of City Council REDLINE 1-27-26 Rule 4-1,
                                       Rate Process Changes
                                       Signed Ordinance 26-05.pdf

                                   This Ordinance was finally passed on the Consent Calendar.

4B. First Presentation:

4B.A. 26-107              City Council Regular Meeting Minutes February 24, 2026

                                   Presenter:
                                 Sarah B. Johnson, City Clerk

              Attachments: 2-24-2026 City Council Meeting Minutes Final

                               The Minutes were approved on the Consent Calendar.

4B.B. 26-053              A Resolution Approving the Amended Intergovernmental Agreement
                          between the City of Colorado Springs and El Paso County, Colorado
                          establishing the Pikes Peak Regional Office of Emergency
                          Management

                           Presenter:
                          Ryan Trujillo, Deputy Chief of Staff
                          Andrew Notbohm, Regional Director, Office of Emergency
                          Management

City of Colorado Springs  Page 2                                                                       Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                           March 10, 2026

              Attachments: Amended_CIty-County_OEM_IGA 2026
                                 Resolution-Amended-OEM_IGA Final
                                 Slides_City Council PPROEM Merger IGA Final PR

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.C. 26-071              A Resolution authorizing the acquisition of real property, using PPRTA
                          funds for the Alternative Treatment Site ­ Austin Bluffs and Woodmen
                          Project

                                   Presenter:
                                 Gayle Sturdivant, PE, PMP, City Engineer/Deputy Public Works
                                 Director
                                 Kellie Billingsley, Real Estate Services Manager

              Attachments: 1_Project Location
                                 2_Draft Resolution_Alternative Treatment Site.docx
                                 3_Alternative Treatment Site Austin Bluffs-Woodmen - Presentation
                                 Signed Resolution 18-26.pdf

                               This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.D. 26-082              Public Hearing for the Consideration of a Resolution Setting Certain
                          Natural Gas Rates for Colorado Springs Utilities' March 2026 Rate
                          Case

                                   Presenter:
                                 Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities
                                 Chris Bidlack, Senior Attorney, City Attorney's Office - Utilities Division

              Attachments: Rate Hearing Agenda-March 2026 Rate Case-4-14-26
                                 City Attorney Instructions-March 2026 Rate Case-4-14-26
                                 Issues For Decision-March 2026 Rate Case-4-14-26

                               This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.E. 26-083              A Resolution Regarding Certain Changes to the Natural Gas Service
                          Boundary

                                 Presenter:
                                 Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities

              Attachments: SterlingRanchArea_CC_RES-2026_DAB 022026
                                 City Council - Sterling Ranch Gas Service Boundary Adjustment
                                 01232026
                                 Signed Resolution 20-26.pdf

                               This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

City of Colorado Springs  Page 3                                                                    Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                    March 10, 2026

    4B.F. 26-084          A Resolution Regarding Certain Changes to the Natural Gas Service
                          Boundary

                            Presenter:
                          Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities

       Attachments: SunHillsSubdivision_CC_RES-2026_DAB 022026
                          City Council - Sun Hills Gas Service Boundary Adjustment 01232026
                          Signed Resolution 21-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.G.  ZONE-25-00         An ordinance to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado
       10                 Springs pertaining to approximately 2.93 acres located southwest of
                          Dublin Boulevard and Vincent Drive from A/PDZ/R-1 6/HS-O/AF-O
                          (Agriculture, Planned Development Zone, and Single-Family Medium,
                          with Hillside and United States Air Force Academy Overlays) to
                          MX-N/AF-O (Mixed-Use Neighborhood Scale with United States Air
                          Force Academy Overlay). (Quasi-Judicial) (1st Reading only to set the
                          public hearing date for March 24, 2026)

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0010
                          Located in Council District 1

                            Presenter:
                          Austin Cooper, Senior Planner, City Planning Department
                          Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

       Attachments: Ordinance
                          6473 Vincent Dr_Rezone_Staff Report
                          Attachment 1 - Project Statement
                          Attachment 2 - Land Use Statement
                          Attachment 3 - Public Comments
                          Attachment 4 - Public Comment Response Letter
                          Attachment 5 - Legal Description
                          Attachment 6 - Legal Depiction
                          7.5.704 ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (REZONING)
                          CPC Public Comment
                          Presentation CPC 01.14
                          Presentation CC 03.24
                          Excerpt Minutes - Vincent Drive - CPC 02_11_2026

                        This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.

4B.H. ZONE-25-00 An ordinance to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado

       32                 Springs pertaining to approximately 5.75 acres located at 7915 Hunter

City of Colorado Springs  Page 4                                                             Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council                                   Meeting Minutes  March 10, 2026

                          Peak Trail from R1-6/DF/AP-O (Single-Family Residential Medium
                          with Design Flexibility Overlay and Airport Overlay) to PK/AP-O
                          (Public Park with Airport Overlay). (Quasi-judicial - first reading and
                          setting the public hearing date for March 24, 2026)

                          Council District: 2

                                   Presenter:
                                 Allison Stocker, Senior Planner, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: ZONE-25-0032_Ordinance
                                 ZONE-25-0032_Staff_Report
                                 Attachment_1_Cumbre_Vista_Land_Use_Statement
                                 Attachment_2_Cumbre_Vista_Project_Statement
                                 Attachment_3_Public_Comments
                                 Exhibit_A_Zone_Legal_Description
                                 Exhibit_B_Zone_Map_Exhibit
                                 ZONE-25-0032_CC_Presentation

                               This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.

4B.I.         ZONE-25-00  An ordinance to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado
              33          Springs pertaining to approximately 4.48 acres located at 950
                          Spectrum Loop from PDZ (Planned Development Zone) to PK/AF-O
                          (Public Park with United States Air Force Academy Overlay).
                          (Quasi-Judicial - first reading and setting the public hearing date for
                          March 24, 2026)

                          Council District 2

                                   Presenter:
                                 Allison Stocker, Senior Planner, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: ZONE-25-0033_Ordinance
                                 ZONE-25-0033_Staff_Report
                                 Attachment_1_Land_Use_Statement_v2
                                 Attachment_2_Project_Statement
                                 Exhibit_A_Zone_Legal_Description
                                 Exhibit_B_Zone_Map_Exhibit_v2
                                 ZONE-25-0033_CPC_Presentation_v2

                               This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.

City of Colorado Springs                       Page 5           Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                March 10, 2026

4B.J.         ZONE-25-00  An ordinance to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado
              24          Springs pertaining to approximately 319.94 acres located west of
                          Marksheffel Road, north of Drennan Road, and southeast of Peterson
                          Airforce Base from MX-M/cr/GI/cr/BP/cr/APD/AP-O/APZ-1 (Mixed-Use
                          Medium Scale with Conditions of Record, General Industrial with
                          Conditions of Record, Business Park with Conditions of Record, and
                          Airport Planned Development with Airport Overlay and Accident
                          Potential Zone) to PDZ/AP-O/APZ-1 (Planned Development Zone with
                          Airport Overlay and Accident Potential Zone). (Quasi-Judicial - First
                          reading and setting the public hearing for March 24, 2026, in accord
                          with City Code Section 7.5.407)

                          Located in Council District 4

                                Presenter:
                              Drew Foxx, Planner II, City Planning Department
                              Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

             Attachments: ORD_Landings Business Park
                                 Staff Report_Landings Business Park
                                 Attachment 1_Land Use Plan
                                 Attachment 2_PSFB Review Comments
                                 Attachment 3_Project Statement
                                 Attachment 4_Traffic Impact Study
                                 Attachment 5_Banning Lewis Ranch Master Plan
                                 Attachment 6_Contrarian MD 1-6 Resolution No. 106-25
                                 Attachment 7_Peak Innovation Park Master Plan
                                 Banning Lewis Ranch No. 1 (Ord. 88-114)
                                 Banning Lewis Ranch R-5 Zone Establishment (Ord. 88-134)
                                 Exhibit A_Legal Description
                                 Exhibit B_Zoning Map Amendment
                                 M-2_GI Zone Establishment (Ord. 88-126)
                                 PBC(2)_MX-M Zone Establishment (Ord. 88-131)
                                 PIP-2_BP Zone Establishment (Ord. 88-122)
                                 7.5.704 ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (REZONING)
                                 Staff Presentation_Landings Business Park

                              This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.
Approval of the Consent Agenda

                          Motion by President Pro Tem Risley, seconded by Councilmember
                          Gold, that all matters on the Consent Calendar be passed, adopted,
                          and approved by unanimous consent of the members present. The
                          motion passed by a vote of 9-0-0-0

City of Colorado Springs  Page 6                         Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                      March 10, 2026

                          Aye: 9 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Gold, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr.,
                                         Risley, and Williams

5. Recognitions

5.A. 26-110               City Council Appointments to Boards, Commissions, and Committees

                                   Presenter:
                                 Lynette Crow-Iverson, Council President and Councilmember At
                                 Large

              Attachments: 03102026 Boards Commissions and Committees Appointment
                                 PPRBD Licensing Committee

                          President Crow-Iverson presented the City Council Appointments to
                          Boards, Commissions, and Committees.

                                President Pro Tem Risley expressed appreciation for the nominees who
                                wish to serve the City.

                                   Motion by Councilmember Leinweber, seconded by Councilmember
                                   Rainey Jr., that the City Council Appointments to Boards, Commissions,
                                   and Committees be approved. The motion passed by a vote of 9-0-0-0
                          Aye: 9 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Gold, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr.,

                                          Risley, and Williams

6. Mayor's Business

                                Travis Easton, Acting Chief of Staff, announced that there was a recent
                                article in the Denver Gazette which identified the results for the Ease of
                                Navigating Study and Colorado Springs was ranked number one in the
                                nation and expressed appreciation for everyone involved in those capital
                                projects.
7. Items Called Off Consent Calendar

                                There were no items called off the Consent Calendar.

8. Utilities Business

                                There was no Utilities Business.

9. Unfinished Business

    9.A. 25-590           An Ordinance Amending Section 110 (Camping on Public Property
                          Prohibited) and Repealing Section 111 (Camping and Waste Deposit
City of Colorado Springs  Within Public Stream/Public Stream Riparian Zone Prohibited) of Part
                          1 (General Offenses) of Article 6 (Offenses Affecting Property) and
                          Repealing Section 404 (Camping Restrictions) of Part 4 (Offenses

                          Page 7                                                               Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  March 10, 2026

                          Relating to Persons) of Article 9 (Park Offenses) of Chapter 9 (Public
                          Offenses) of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, As
                          Amended, Pertaining to Camping Regulation, and Providing Penalties
                          for the Violation Thereof.

                                   Presenter:
                                 Dave Donelson, Councilmember District 1
                                 Lieutenant Ryan Tepley, Homeless Outreach Team, Colorado Springs
                                 Police Department
                                 Sergeant Olav Chaney, Homeless Outreach Team, Colorado Springs
                                 Police Department
                                 Emily Vandenberg, Prosecuting Attorney, City Attorney's Office

              Attachments: 2025 Camping Ordinance - Council Presentation
                                 Ch9-OffensesCampingProhibited-ORD-2026-02-04
                                 Appendix to 9.6.110 Camping Prohibited Amendments
                                 2026 Camping Ordinance - Council Presentation Final
                                 Municipal Court Process Outline
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-08.pdf

                              Citizens Kristy Milligan, Westside Cares, Zach Mangold, K.P. Fulmer,
                              Colleen Maurizi, Michael Onstaad, Pastor Gerald Waugh, Sacred Heart,
                              Old Colorado City, Pastor Ashley Allinger, Pastor, Christ the King
                              Lutheran Church/Army Reserve Chaplain, Aaron Drake, Taylor Gray,
                              Edie Wren, spoke in opposition of the proposed Ordinance.

                          Citizen Susan Coldwell spoke in support of the proposed Ordinance.

                          Councilmember Donelson stated this Ordinance does not apply to
                          recreational vehicles (RVs), vehicles will not be seized or impounded
                          based on this Ordinance and read a statement he received from a
                          constituent in support of the Ordinance, and stated he also supports this
                          Ordinance based on safety and public sanitation issues it provides.

                          Councilmember Henjum stated this Ordinance makes it illegal to sleep in
                          your car and takes away shelter for hundreds of individuals residing in
                          their vehicle and requested additional information for what resources the
                          City is providing to direct people to service providers regarding housing.
                          Aimee Cox, Chief Housing and Homelessness Response Officer, stated
                          the Administration works to find a balance of enforcement and
                          compassion, the City does not provide programs, they provide outreach
                          though the Colorado Springs Fire Department, they met with providers
                          three weeks ago and identified three actions such as expanding their

City of Colorado Springs  Page 8           Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  March 10, 2026

                          resource directory, staff/providers attending a diversion training
                          program, and clarified the zoning requirements for safe parking. She
                          stated they will also be offering an educational session to the community
                          regarding applicable Ordinances.

                                Councilmember Leinweber stated there are already laws in place
                                regarding camping in the public right of way and this Ordinance provides
                                clear, accurate tools and guidance to law enforcement, it is not about a
                                person's status, and he agrees that additional resources need to be
                                provided to people experiencing homelessness.

                                   Motion by Councilmember Donelson, seconded by Councilmember
                                   Williams, that the Ordinance No.26-08 amending Section 110 (Camping
                                   on Public Property Prohibited) and repealing Section 111 (Camping and
                                   Waste Deposit Within Public Stream/Public Stream Riparian Zone
                                   Prohibited) of Part 1 (General Offenses) of Article 6 (Offenses Affecting
                                   Property) and repealing Section 404 (Camping Restrictions) of Part 4
                                   (Offenses Relating to Persons) of Article 9 (Park Offenses) of Chapter 9
                                   (Public Offenses) of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, as
                                   amended, pertaining to camping regulation, and providing penalties for
                                   the violation thereof be finally passed. The motion passed by a vote of
                                   7-2-0-0

                          Aye: 7 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., Risley, and
                                          Williams

                            No: 2 - Gold, and Henjum

10. New Business

10.A. 26-077              An Ordinance Repealing Ordinance Nos. 02-10 And 21-92 Thereby
                          Dissolving The Citizens' Transportation Advisory Board

                                   Presenter:
                                 David Leinweber, Councilmember At Large
                                 Nancy Henjum, Councilmember District 5
                                 Michael Montgomery, Deputy City Council Administrator

              Attachments: CitizensTransAdvisoryBoard-Repeal-ORD-2026-02-18

                              Citizen Taylor Gray spoke about the characteristics he sees in the City
                              Councilmembers.

                          Councilmember Leinweber expressed appreciation for everyone who
                          had served on Citizens' Transportation Advisory Board (CTAB) and
                          expressed support of the proposed dissolution of CTAB.

                          President Pro Tem Risley provided a brief history of CTAB and how the

City of Colorado Springs  Page 9           Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                               March 10, 2026

                          benefit and need for CTAB have changed over the years and expressed
                          support of the proposed dissolution.

                          Councilmember Henjum read an email received from Citizen Nicole
                          Odell regarding the dissolution of CTAB and the need for a
                          transportation advisory committee and stated she will not be supporting
                          the dissolution of CTAB.

                                Gayle Sturdivant, Deputy Public Works Director, City Engineer, provided
                                a brief overview of the role of CTAB and opportunities available for
                                citizens who would like to volunteer for committees involving the City's
                                transportation system.

                                   Motion by Councilmember Donelson, seconded by Councilmember
                                   Bailey, that the Ordinance repealing Ordinance Nos. 02-10 and 21-92
                                   thereby dissolving The Citizens' Transportation Advisory Board be
                                   approved on first reading The motion passed by a vote of 7-2-0-0

                          Aye: 7 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., Risley, and
                                          Williams

                            No: 2 - Gold, and Henjum

11. Public Hearing

11.A.         ZONE-25-00  Ordinance No. 26-07 to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado
              26          Springs pertaining to 8.27 acres located within the two blocks bound
                          by N. Nevada Ave, E. St. Vrain St., N. Weber St., and E. Platte Ave.
                          from R-1 6/R-5/OR (Single-Family - Medium, Multi-family High, and
                          Office Residential) to FBZ-T2A (Form-Based Zone - Transition Sector
                          2A). (Quasi-Judicial) (2nd Reading and Public Hearing)

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0026, SUBD-25-0076, LUPL-25-0012

                          Located in Council District 3

                           Presenter:
                          Ryan Tefertiller, Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                          Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

City of Colorado Springs  Page 10                                                       Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                         March 10, 2026

              Attachments: Zone Ord_ZONE_25-0026
                                 Palmer HS CPC Staff Report 121025
                                 Attachment 1 - Palmer HS Project Statement
                                 Attachment 2 - Palmer HS Zone Change Legal Description
                                 Attachment 3 - Palmer HS Zone Change Exhibit
                                 Attachment 4a - Boulder ROW Vacation Legal
                                 Attachment 4b - Boulder ROW Vacation Plat
                                 Attachment 5 - Palmer HS Land Use Plan
                                 Attachment 6 - Zoning Map
                                 Attachment 7 - Consolidated Stakeholder Input Palmer HS project
                                 022526
                                 Attachment 8 - Palmer HS Stakeholder Responses
                                 Attachment 9 - Palmer HS Steering Committee
                                 Attachment 10 - Palmer HS April 2025 Traffic Study
                                 Attachment 11 ­ Palmer HS Traffic Study Update
                                 7.5.704 ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (REZONING)
                                 DRB_Minutes_11.4.25 Draft
                                 CPC Minutes Excerpt - Palmer High School - 12.10.2025
                                 Palmer HS Staff Presentation City Council 031026
                                 Applicant Presentation - Palmer High School Transformation
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-07.pdf

                          President Pro Tem Risley recused himself due to his firm being actively
                          engaged in another project with District 11.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if the vacation of right of way should
                          come before the other items. Ryan Tefertiller, Urban Planning Manager,
                          Planning Development, stated there was some thought which went into
                          the order of the three items, and he believes the zone change should
                          proceed with or without the right of way vacation.

                          Mr. Tefertiller presented the three proposed items amending the zoning
                          map of the City from R-1 6/R-5/OR (Single-Family - Medium, Multi-family
                          High, and Office Residential) to FBZ-T2A (Form-Based Zone - Transition
                          Sector 2A) pertaining to 8.27 acres, vacating the public right-of-way
                          known as East Boulder Street consisting of approximately 0.92 acres,
                          and establishing the District 11 Palmer High School Land Use located
                          on the two blocks bound by N. Nevada Ave., E. St. Vrain St., N. Weber
                          St., and E. Platte Ave. He provided an overview of the vicinity map,
                          applications, project summary, Land Use Plan, Palmer High School
                          (PHS), timeline of review, stakeholder involvement, agency review,

City of Colorado Springs  Page 11                                                                 Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  March 10, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  PlanCOS compliance, zone change, application review criteria, Boulder
                          Street right-of-way vacation, and optional motions.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked how many emails received were in
                          support of the project. Mr. Tefertiller stated approximately sixty percent
                          of the emails received were in support of the project.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked what the practical consequences are if
                          the rezoning occurs and the later phases are not funded. Mr. Tefertiller
                          stated the FBZ which already encompasses approximately one square
                          mile of downtown Colorado Springs, allows a mix of uses at urban
                          densities, standards are written intentionally for walkability, and if the
                          later phases are not funded, the zone would allow the school district to
                          develop according to those standards, although because school districts
                          are not required to comply with zoning, if they get their permits through
                          the state, the zone change is not critical.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked what elements of the proposal will still
                          come back to the City for review such as parking, building placement,
                          and neighborhood mitigation. Mr. Tefertiller stated the school district has
                          already submitted a Form Based Development Plan for Phase 1A which
                          will require a public hearing and review by the Downtown Review Board.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked what the assumption was of the change
                          to the FBZ. Mr. Tefertiller stated they will be pursuing the Development
                          Plan and a subdivision plat to establish one lot over the 8.2 acres.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked how staff weighed the transitional
                          compatibility with the Weber/Wahsatch Historic District. Mr. Tefertiller
                          stated it was difficult because the Land Use Plan is extremely vague, but
                          when the Development Plan is submitted, they will make sure it
                          complies with the building height limits and design guidelines which they
                          feel are compatible.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if approving the rezone would prejudice
                          Council's decisions on the vacation and the Land Use Plan. Mr.
                          Tefertiller stated he did not believe so because it would still make sense
                          to approve the FBZ even if the vacation is not approved.

                          Chris Lieber, NES, representing the applicant, identified the project team
                          and agenda.

                          Page 12          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  March 10, 2026

                          Michael Gaal, Superintendent of Schools for Colorado Springs School
                          District 11, stated they would like a connected/coherent campus for
                          students to be in a consolidated space, they already have the funding
                          for Phases 1A and 1B, Phase 2 which will move ERPS gym will be a
                          conversation with the community at a later time, and this vision for PHS
                          connects with General Palmer's vision as a pillar of education for the
                          first Colorado Springs High School.

                          Jessica Wise, Executive Director of Engagement for School District 11,
                          went over the vision: past, present, future, reasons for a connected
                          campus, community driven, process, alternatives, education rooted in
                          excellence, International Baccalaureate (IB) philosophy, student safety,
                          PHS, downtown, and process steering committee.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked what is meant by "reinvent urban
                          education and tying it to downtown". Mr. Gaal stated it is the school that
                          makes the neighborhood, not the neighborhood that makes the school,
                          and people will move wherever they need to get access to high quality
                          education, which is what Palmer High School represents, and a urban
                          education means an open connected campus which allows students to
                          have internships, partnerships, and apprenticeships with the downtown
                          businesses.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked if the Doherty High School campus
                          where a student was killed crossing the street is a unified campus. Mr.
                          Gaal stated it is a stand-alone unified campus, and the student was
                          crossing Barnes Road in a designated safety zone.

                          Mr. Lieber went over the entitlement applications, community context,
                          existing zone context, proposed rezone, vacation of right-of-way,
                          consolidated campus, observed traffic behavior, student circulation,
                          pedestrian access, criteria, community benefits versus closure,
                          conditions of approval, and PHS's vision to be transformative/connected.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked what the closure of Boulder Street has
                          resulted in. Mr. Lieber stated the traffic performance was better than
                          what was projected.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked if there were any significant findings from
                          the two traffic studies which were conducted. Lyle DeVries, Felsburg,

City of Colorado Springs  Page 13          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                    March 10, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  Holt, and Ullevig (FHU), representing the applicant, stated the first study
                          predicted what the shift in traffic would be with the Boulder Street
                          closure which was identified as acceptable, with one exception for the
                          intersection of St. Vrain Street and Nevada Avenue which had a
                          degrading of service and the second study found they over predicted the
                          shifts in traffic and revealed no additional issues.

                          Councilmember Leinweber stated the safety of kids is paramount and
                          requested additional information on parking. Mr. Lieber stated the total
                          number of parking spaces is 443 spaces and provided an overview of
                          the proposed parking inventory.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked why the FBZ rezone is critical to this
                          project. Mr. Lieber stated if they did not change it, any future
                          development would require requests for variances.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if, since the current zoning is already
                          compliant with Phase 1A, if the rezone could take place at a later time.
                          Mr. Lieber confirmed it could.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked how the students would be affected if the
                          rezone was delayed until funding for Phase 1B and Phase 2 is received.
                          Ms. Wise stated they already have the funding for Phase 1B and if they
                          did not receive funding for Phase 2, they would still move the classes
                          currently held at ERPS gym to the connected campus for student safety.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked how many residential structures are
                          proposed for removal. Mr. Lieber stated there are three homes located
                          on the north end within the Weber Wasatch Historic District, but not
                          within a historic overlay, which will need to be relocated or removed and
                          because of the cost-prohibited nature of relocation and lack of property,
                          the plan is for those houses to be demolished.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked what PHS enrollment forecast is for the
                          next five to fifteen years. Brandon Comfort, Deputy Superintendent,
                          stated their projection for PHS is to stabilize around 1,000 to 1,100
                          students and that they do not expect student enrollment declines.

                          Councilmember Henjum requested additional information regarding
                          parking availability in Phase 2. Mr. Lieber stated when they submit the
                          Development Plan it will include all the details of parking, the district has

                          Page 14                                                            Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  March 10, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  three other adjacent lots which will remain, and they will have
                          conversations with other adjacent land uses which have ample surface
                          or garage parking.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked why a permanent vacation of right of way
                          is necessary rather than another model which would preserve public
                          ownership. Mr. Lieber stated there will still be an easement which the
                          City would retain for utility connection, but in order to build facilities in
                          this corridor and control access, it would be necessary for the district to
                          own that ground.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if the closure of Boulder Street will
                          impact the Pikes Peak Rural Transportation Authority's plan for Platte
                          Avenue corridor improvements. Richard Mulledy, Director, Public Works,
                          stated the original vision of those improvements stopped at Wahsatch
                          Avenue and in the study, it was an alternative solution.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if Memorial Hospital was in support of
                          this project due to the possible effect on adding twenty seconds to
                          emergency response times. Shannon Snuggs, Commander of the Gold
                          Hill Division, Colorado Springs Police Department (CSPD), stated she
                          cannot answer for the fire and emergency medical services which may
                          be impacted more, but CSPD had minimum concern.

                          MJ Benenati, Director of Government Affairs, Chamber and EDC,
                          Chelsea Gondeck, Chief Executive Officer, Downtown Partnership, Willa
                          Kalmanowitz, Avani Stack, Eva Thomas-Tappitake, Brooklyn Barnett,
                          members of Student Council at PHS, Dennis Moore, Lead Security at
                          PHS, and Krista Burke, Principal at PHS, spoke in support of the project

                          Councilmember Donelson requested additional information regarding
                          students getting hit by vehicles. Mr. Moore explained that a student was
                          hospitalized in 2025 due to a vehicle hitting her in a crosswalk and three
                          years ago, a teacher was hit by a vehicle in a crosswalk.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked what the current student count is. Ms.
                          Burke stated there are currently 1,090 students enrolled at PHS.

                          Amy Hill, Cheryl Brown, President of the Historic Uptown Neighborhood,
                          Diane Bridges, Richard Skorman, Kathy New, Daniel Way, Cheryl
                          Downey, and Richard Henley spoke in opposition of the vacation of the

                          Page 15          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council                                                  Meeting Minutes                  March 10, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  right of way and rezone.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked which businesses Mr. Skorman spoke
                          to which are not in support of the vacation and rezone. Mr. Skorman
                          provided a list of the businesses.

                          President Crow-Iverson asked how many baby boomers have had to be
                          transported to the hospital from his downtown business. Mr. Skorman
                          stated approximately five hundred in the past ten years.

                          Mr. Lieber stated there is competition between high schools and there is
                          a choice to made as to whether or not PHS is a place that thrives, there
                          was community engagement which included focus groups that directly
                          reached out to business owners through the downtown newsletter, direct
                          mailings within 1,000 feet that were sent more than five months ago,
                          there was a door to door outreach by the Downtown Partnership, letters
                          went out through Hey Neighbor, and through TV coverage to encourage
                          engagement and participation in in the process. He stated the district
                          agrees with the Conditions of Approval, the funding is already available
                          for Phase 1B, the district is having conversations about a potential bond
                          measure for funding for Phase 2, but will need to have the right of way
                          secured first, in regard to the traffic movements/emergency access, they
                          rely on the experts to do those studies and have had the real life
                          scenario over the last nine months. Mr. Lieber explained they believe
                          having the track located on Nevada Avenue makes more sense than
                          having it located on Platte Avenue, they would like to prevent the
                          students from having to walk down and back from ERPS gym, the right
                          of way vacation is important for the district's ability to pull building
                          permits, it is a question of prioritizing safety over convenience, the
                          district would be in favor of additional pedestrian improvements, and the
                          district is working hard to follow the entitlement requirements for zoning.

                          Mr. Tefertiller stated the formal public notice process through the
                          Planning Department has been extensive with five different postcard
                          mailings to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the site.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked if all five of the postcard mailings
                          included the intent to vacate Boulder Street. Mr. Tefertiller confirmed
                          they did.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked how traffic will get around the Boulder

                          Page 16                                              Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                 March 10, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  Street closure in twenty seconds. Mr. Mulledy stated the emergency
                          response time from PHS to Memorial Hospital down Boulder Street is
                          two minutes, thirty-two seconds and with the closure of Boulder Street, it
                          is two minutes, fifty-two seconds.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked if the congestion caused by students
                          being dropped off on Weber Street, Platte Avenue, and Nevada Avenue
                          has been addressed. Mr. Tefertiller confirmed it has been in the
                          Development Plan which is currently under review.

                          Councilmember Donelson requested additional information regarding
                          traffic impact due to the Boulder Street closure. Todd Frisbie, City Traffic
                          Engineer, stated the two traffic studies indicate a Level of Service (LOS)
                          of B and C prior to the closure of Boulder Street and a LOS C after the
                          closure.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked why the intersection at St. Vrain Street
                          and Nevada Avenue goes to a LOS F in the afternoon. Mr. Frisbie
                          stated it is due to it being an unsignalized stop at peak hours which has
                          a different threshold.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked why the students do not continue to
                          use the tunnel under Boulder Street. Doug Abernathy, Principal, RTA
                          Architecture, representing the applicant, stated one of the principals they
                          are using in the design process is crime prevention and the tunnel under
                          Boulder Street is not very well supervised, which is not very safe for
                          students. Mathias Wilson, Athletic Director, PHS, stated the tunnel goes
                          to the auxiliary gym, not ERPS gym.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked how wide the tunnel under Boulder
                          Street is. Mr. Abernathy stated it is eight feet wide.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked when the tunnel was built. Mr. Gaal
                          stated he believes it was added in the nineteen sixties.

                          Councilmember Bailey stated going around a City block is a minor
                          inconvenience compared to other areas of the City where the roads are
                          much farther apart and asked if the school district has the authority to
                          not collaborate with the City regarding the zoning. Mr. Tefertiller
                          confirmed they did because the state of Colorado has given additional
                          rights to public education/school districts, but School District 11 has

                          Page 17          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                    March 10, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  been a great partner by collaborating with Planning Staff regarding this
                          project.

                          Councilmember Bailey stated he trusts the process and the experts who
                          have evaluated the impact.

                          Councilmember Williams asked if the connectivity occurs as planned,
                          will the campus be a closed campus or will it remain an open campus.
                          Ms. Wise stated they are continuing to work with the City to keep it an
                          open campus.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked if there have been any reports of
                          emergency vehicles having to circumvent Boulder Street since its
                          closure. Mr. Frisbie stated the Public Works Department has not
                          received any complaints from emergency services and traffic has also
                          appeared to be the same since the closure. Travis Easton, Acting Chief
                          of Staff, stated Adrian Vasquez, Chief, Colorado Springs Police
                          Department (CSPD), also reported there were no complaints received
                          and the closure has not been impactful.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked what is envisioned for student drop off
                          and not to impede traffic. Ms. Burke stated when construction is
                          complete, they will go back to parent student drop off on Weber Street.
                          Mr. Abernathy stated buses will drop students off on Nevada Avenue.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked if the public could access the Boulder
                          Street tunnel. Mr. Abernathy stated they cannot.

                          Councilmember Rainey stated regardless of whether this project is
                          passed or not, the pedestrian safety at the intersections adjacent to PHS
                          needs to be addressed and engagement with stakeholders needs to
                          continue.

                          Councilmember Leinweber stated because schools are very competitive,
                          PHS needs to look toward the future in making it the best it can be. Mr.
                          Gaal stated PHS facilities index is the lowest scoring school in the
                          School District 11 portfolio.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if the zone change is necessary for the
                          remainder of what the district has already planned and paid for. Mr.
                          Lieber stated it depends on if the City wants the school district to

                          Page 18          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                March 10, 2026

                          continue to partner and align its plans with the City's standards without a
                          preponderance of variances, but it is not necessary from a land use
                          perspective.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if Boulder Street being no longer needed
                          for public transportation purposes was a policy judgement of City
                          Council. Mr. Frisbie stated their opinion is the impact from the closure
                          was not as impactful as they projected it would be before the closure.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked what the plan is for managing the traffic
                          queue at Platte Avenue and Nevada Avenue. Mr. Frisbie stated that
                          queue has not been backed up as much as they thought they would be.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if Phase 1B had begun. Ms. Wise stated
                          it has not.

                          Councilmember Donelson stated there should be a high threshold of
                          public benefit if one of the three arterial streets will be closed, facilities
                          do not dictate academic success, closing Boulder Street will have a
                          negative impact on downtown businesses/residents, and academics and
                          location drive parents to where their children go to school, not the track.

                            Councilmember Henjum requested City Council vote on Agenda item
                            11.B. first. President Crow-Iverson stated they will be voting on the items
                            in order with 11.A. being first.

                             Motion by Councilmember Leinweber, seconded by Councilmember
                             Bailey, that the Ordinance No.26-07 amending the zoning map of the City
                             of Colorado Springs pertaining to 8.27 acres located within the two
                             blocks bound by N. Nevada Ave, E. St. Vrain St., N. Weber St., and E.
                             Platte Ave. from R-1 6/R-5/OR (Single-Family - Medium, Multi-family High,
                             and Office Residential) to the FBZ-T2A (Form-Based Zone - Transition
                             Sector 2A) zone district based upon the findings that the request
                             complies with the criteria for a Zoning Map amendment as set forth in
                             City Code Section 7.5.704 be finally passed. The motion passed by a vote
                             of 5-3-0-1

                    Aye: 5 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., and Williams

                      No: 3 - Donelson, Gold, and Henjum

              Recused: 1 - Risley

11.B. SUBD-25-00 Ordinance No.26-06 vacating the public right-of-way known as East

              76          Boulder Street consisting of approximately 0.92 acres located

                          between N. Nevada Ave. and N. Weber St. (Legislative) (2nd Reading

City of Colorado Springs  Page 19                                                        Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council                                             Meeting Minutes                       March 10, 2026

                          and Public Hearing)

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0026, SUBD-25-0076, LUPL-25-0012

                          Located in Council District 3

                                   Presenter:
                                 Ryan Tefertiller, Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: ORD_VacationROW_East Boulder Street
                                 7.5.522 VACATION PLAT
                                 Exhibit A - Boulder ROW Vacation Legal
                                 Exhibit B - Boulder ROW Vacation Plat

                              Please see comments in Agenda item 11.A.

                               Councilmember Henjum asked why the parking lot and the lot looked
                               like it was under construction if they had not begun work on Phase 1B.
                               Ms. Wise stated that it is the drilling for the geothermal which they
                               received a $1 million grant from the state for the heating and
                               conditioning of the building.

                                Motion by Councilmember Leinweber, seconded by Councilmember
                                Bailey, that the Ordinance No. 26-06 vacating the public right-of-way
                                known as East Boulder Street consisting of approximately 0.92 acres
                                located between N. Nevada Ave. and N. Weber St. based upon the
                                findings that the request complies with the criteria as set forth in City
                                Code Section 7.5.522 provided the following Conditions of Approval are
                                applied: Conditions of Approval: 1. An agreement between the City of
                                Colorado Springs and School District 11 shall be entered into that
                                requires School District 11 to allow public egress over the property if the
                                space is unused for construction or permanent School District 11
                                activities 2. Request that D11 collaborate with the City to provide public
                                egress during construction of the PPRTA-fund Platte Avenue
                                Improvements (Wahsatch to Circle) project. 3. An agreement between the
                                City of Colorado Springs and School District 11 shall be entered into that
                                requires School District 11 to return ownership to the City of Colorado
                                Springs, should the district choose to dispose of the property be finally
                                passed. The motion failed by a vote of 4-4-0-1

                       Aye: 4 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Leinweber, and Rainey Jr.

                         No: 4 - Donelson, Gold, Henjum, and Williams

                 Recused: 1 - Risley

11.C. LUPL-25-001 Establishment of the District 11 Palmer High School Land Use Plan

              2           for proposed civic uses consisting of approximately 8.27 acres located

City of Colorado Springs  Page 20                                                              Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                    March 10, 2026

                          on the two blocks bound by N. Nevada Ave., E. St. Vrain St., N.
                          Weber St., and E. Platte Ave.
                          (Quasi-Judicial)

                          This application is in association with the School District 11 Palmer
                          High School zone change and right-of-way vacation, which had their
                          first reading setting a hearing date on February 24, 2026.

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0026, SUBD-25-0076, LUPL-25-0012

                          Located in Council District 3

                                     Presenter:
                                   Ryan Tefertiller, Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                                   Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

                   Attachments: 7.5.514 LAND USE PLAN

                                Please see comments in Agenda item 11.A.

                                   Motion by Councilmember Bailey, seconded by Councilmember Rainey
                                   Jr., that the Palmer High School Land Use Plan related to approximately
                                   8.27 acres for the two blocks bound by N. Nevada Ave., E. St. Vrain St., N.
                                   Weber St., and E. Platte Ave. based on the findings that the request
                                   complies with review criteria for Land Use Plans set forth in City Code
                                   Section 7.5.514 be approved. The motion passed by a vote of 7-1-0-1
                          Aye: 7 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., and

                                          Williams
                            No: 1 - Gold

                   Recused: 1 - Risley

12. Added Item Agenda

                                There were no items added to the Agenda.

13. One Hour of Citizen Discussion for Items not on Today's Agenda per City
Council Rules

                                Citizen Pastor Paul Nelson spoke against Councilmember Gold being
                                reprimanded for addressing Councilmember Donelson walking out of the
                                January 13, 2026 City Council meeting.

                          Citizen Taylor Gray spoke against Councilmember Gold being
                          reprimanded for addressing Councilmember Donelson, the war against
                          Iran, and the use of personal data.

                          Citizen Steve Lightfoot stated Stephen King murdered John Lennon.

City of Colorado Springs  Page 21                                                          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                               March 10, 2026

14. Executive Session

                          There was no Executive Session.

15. Adjourn

                          Councilmember Bailey stated it has been his pleasure to serve the City
                          and due to a small, but vocal, minority of neighbors opposing his
                          principles of smart growth, public safety, private property rights, and
                          policies that encourage business success in the community and who
                          wishes to overturn the results of last year's election by abusing the recall
                          process in an effort to remove him from office, which would impose
                          significant costs on the City which is already struggling with declining
                          revenues and increasing costs of basic services and since such an
                          election would likely see very low voter turnout, which would not be
                          representative of the views of the citizens of District 2, he has chosen to
                          resign as Councilmember for District 2, effective immediately. He
                          thanked everyone who had supported him and handed his letter of
                          resignation to President Crow-Iverson.

                          President Crow-Iverson stated she is not going to accept
                          Councilmember Bailey's resignation, tore up his resignation letter, and
                          challenged him to run for this seat

                          Councilmember Donelson asked for clarification as to if the resignation
                          stands. Sara Brewen, Senior Attorney, City Attorney's Office, stated if a
                          Councilmember wishes to resign, then the resignation becomes
                          effective.

                          Several Councilmembers expressed gratitude for Councilmember
                          Bailey's service to the City.

                          There being no further business to come before City Council, Council
                          adjourned at 5:14 PM.

                          Sarah B. Johnson, City Clerk

City of Colorado Springs  Page 22                                                       Printed on 3/27/2026
