                            City of Colorado Springs                                                   City Hall
                                                                                             107 N. Nevada Avenue
                            Meeting Minutes                                                  Colorado Springs, CO

                                               City Council                                             80903

                               City Council meetings are broadcast live on Channel 18. In          Council Chambers
                             accordance with the ADA, anyone requiring an auxiliary aid to
                            participate in this meeting should make the request as soon as
                            possible but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.

                                   Documents created by third parties may not meet all
                                                          accessibility criteria.

Tuesday, February 24, 2026  9:00 AM

     How to Watch the Meeting

     Coloradosprings.gov/springstv | Facebook Live: Colorado Springs City Council
     Facebook Page @coscity Council | SPRINGS TV - Comcast Channel 18 / 880 (HD)
     - Stratus IQ Channel 76 / 99 (Streaming)
     How to Comment on Agenda Items

     Before the meeting, you may email general comments for items not on the agenda or
     comments regarding agenda items to: allcouncil@coloradosprings.gov
     Estimated agenda item times are provided for planning purposes and do not constitute notice
     of a specific time for any item. Items may take more or less time than estimated. City Council
     may amend the order of items.
1. Call to Order and Roll Call

                                President Crow-Iverson called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM.
                     Present: 9 - Councilmember Tom Bailey, President Lynette Crow-Iverson,

                                          Councilmember Dave Donelson, Councilmember Kimberly Gold,
                                          Councilmember Nancy Henjum, Councilmember David Leinweber,
                                          Councilmember Roland Rainey Jr., President Pro Tem Brian Risley, and
                                          Councilmember Brandy Williams
                                      Councilmember Williams attended the meeting virtually.

2. Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance

                                The Invocation was made by Pastor John Goodale from the First
                                Presbyterian Church.

                                President Crow-Iverson led the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Changes to Agenda/Postponements

                                There were no changes to the Agenda.

City of Colorado Springs    Page 1                                                           Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                             February 24, 2026

4. Consent Calendar

These items will be acted upon as a whole, unless a specific item is called for
discussion by a Councilmember or a citizen wishing to address the City Council.
(Any items called up for separate consideration shall be acted upon following the
Mayor's Business.)

4A. Second Presentation:

4A.A.         CODE-25-00  Ordinance No. 26-01 amending Chapter 7 (the "Unified Development
              05          Code" or "UDC") of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, as
                          amended, as related to Signs.
                          (Legislative)

                          Related Files: CODE-25-0005
                          Located in All Council Districts

                                   Presenter:
                                 Kurt Schmitt, Program Administrator II, City Planning Department
                                 Daniel Sexton, Land Use Review/Development Review Enterprises
                                 Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: Planning-SignCodeORD-2026-01-21
                                 Staff Report_Sign Ordinance CODE-25-0005_KS_final
                                 Chapter 7_Current Sign Regulations
                                 HBA letter
                                 7.5.702 AMENDMENT TO UDC TEXT
                                 CITY COUNCIL - CODE-25-0005 _final
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-01.pdf

                          This Ordinance was finally passed on the Consent Calendar.

4A.B. 26-044              Ordinance NO. 26-02 amending Part 2 (Use and Occupancy of Public
                          Property) of Article 2 (City Properties) of Chapter 3 (Public Property and
                          Public Works) of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, as
                          amended, pertaining to sign regulations
                          (Legislative)

                          Related Files: CODE-25-0005
                          Located in All Council Districts

                           Presenter:
                          Kurt Schmitt, Program Administrator II, City Planning Department
                          Daniel Sexton, Land Use Review/ Development Review Enterprises

City of Colorado Springs  Page 2                                                      Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                   February 24, 2026

                                 Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: Chapter 3_Revocable Permits Sign Ordinance
                                 CITY COUNCIL - CODE-25-0005 _final
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-02.pdf

                          This Ordinance was finally passed on the Consent Calendar.

4A.C.         ZONE-25-00  An ordinance to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado Springs
              31          pertaining to approximately 21.19 acres located northeast of Bradley
                          Road and Powers Boulevard from R-5/AP-O (Multi-Family, High with
                          Airport Overlay) to R-FLEX M/AP-O (R-Flex, Medium Scale with Airport
                          Overlay). (Quasi-Judicial - First reading and setting the public hearing for
                          February 24, 2026 in accord with City Code Section 7.5.407. Hearings
                          for the ordinance and any related applications shall be conducted
                          concurrent with the second reading.)

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0031
                          Located in Council District 4

                                   Presenter:
                                 Drew Foxx, Planner II, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: Staff Report_Ridge at Waterview North Zone Change
                                 Exhibit A_Legal Description
                                 ORD_Ridge at Waterview North Zone Change
                                 Exhibit B_Rezone Map
                                 Figure 1_Project Statement
                                 Figure 2_Annexation Ordinance No. 23-50
                                 Figure 3_Villages at Waterview North Master Plan
                                 Figure 4_Zoning Ordinance No. 23-54
                                 Figure 5_Villages at Waterview North Concept Plan
                                 Figure 6_Land Use Statement
                                 Figure 7_Pre-Approved Development Plan
                                 Ridge at Waterview Zone Change
                                 Presentation Ridge at Waterview Zone Change_DFF
                                 CPC Minutes Excerpt - Ridge at Waterview 1.14.26
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-03.pdf

                          This Ordinance was finally passed on the Consent Calendar.

4A.D. 26-063              Ordinance NO. 26-04 Creating a new Section 113 (Residence
                          Restrictions For Sexually Violent Predators) of Article 2 (Offenses

City of Colorado Springs  Page 3                                                            Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                      February 24, 2026

                          Affecting Public Safety) Of Chapter 9 (Public Offenses) of The City of
                          Colorado Springs 2001, As Amended, Pertaining to Residency
                          Restrictions for Sexually Violent Predators and Providing Penalties for
                          the Violation Thereof

                                     Presenter:
                                   Tom Bailey, Councilmember District 2
                                   Deputy Chief John Koch, CSPD

                   Attachments: Ch9-SexOffenderResidencyRestictions-ORD (CC meeting)
                                       SVP Residency Restrictions
                                       Signed Ordinance 26-04.pdf

                                   This Ordinance was finally passed on the Consent Calendar.

4B. First Presentation:

4B.A. 26-075              City Council Regular Meeting Minutes February 10, 2026

                                   Presenter:
                                 Sarah B. Johnson, City Clerk

              Attachments: 2-10-2026 City Council Meeting Minutes Final

                          The Minutes were approved on the Consent Calendar.

4B.B. 26-011              A Resolution of the City of Colorado Springs Approving a limited second
                          amendment to the amended and restated service plan for the Bradley
                          Heights Metropolitan District Nos. 1, 2, and 3.

                          Located in Council District 4

                           Presenter:
                          Allison Stocker, Senior Planner, City Planning Department
                          Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

City of Colorado Springs  Page 4                                                               Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council                                   Meeting Minutes                                  February 24, 2026

              Attachments: Metro-BradleyHeightsServiceAmend-RES-2026-01-06
                                 Attachment_1_Bradley_Heights_Filing_No_5A_Plat
                                 Attachment_2_Bradley_Heights_Filing_No_5B_Plat
                                 Attachment_3_Bradley_Heights_MD_1-3_Subject_Alleyways
                                 Attachment_4_Res_205-23_Bradley_Heights_MD_Current_Service_Pl
                                 an
                                 Attachment_5_Bradley_Heights_Concept_Plan
                                 Bradley_Heights_MD_1-3_2nd_Amendment_WS_Pt2_Presentation
                                 Exhibit_1_2nd_Amendment_Bradley_Heights_MD_v2
                                 Exhibit_D_Description_of_Services_v2
                                 Bradley_Heights_MD_1-3_2nd_Amendment_CC_Presentation
                                 Signed Resolution 06-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.C. 26-028              A Resolution Authorizing the Disposal of Surplus City Property to Project
                          Tree (the "Purchaser")

                                   Presenter:
                                 Troy Stover, Business Park Development Director, City of Colorado
                                 Springs

              Attachments: Project Tree Resolution
                                 Project Tree Presentation
                                 Signed Resolution 07-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.D. 26-059              A resolution of the City of Colorado Springs, Colorado approving the
                          issuance of Tuscany Plaza Metropolitan District Limited Tax General
                          Obligation Bond Series 2026 in an aggregate amount not to exceed
                          $4,225,243.00 for properties located northeast of Powers Boulevard and
                          Dublin Boulevard.

                          Council District: 6

                           Presenter:
                          Drew Foxx, Planner II, Planning Department
                          Kevin Walker, Planning Director, Planning Department

City of Colorado Springs                       Page 5                                           Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council                          Meeting Minutes                                              February 24, 2026

              Attachments: Bond-TuscanyPlazaMetro-RES-2026-02-02
                                 Attachment #1_Tuscany Plaza MD Service Plan
                                 Attachment #2_Tuscany Plaza MD Boundary_Vicinity Maps
                                 Tuscany_Plaza_MD_Cost_Certification_&_Bonding_Report
                                 Tuscany_Plaza_MD_Draft Debt_Issuance_Resolution
                                 Tuscany_Plaza_MD_Letter_of_Intent
                                 Tuscany_Plaza_MD_Series_2026_Bond_Financial_Plan
                                 Tuscany_Plaza_MD_Presentation
                                 Signed Resolution 08-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.E. 26-049              A Resolution Approving an Addendum to the Northern Monument Creek
                          Interceptor Intergovernmental Agreement

                                   Presenter:
                                 Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities

              Attachments: NMCI IGA Addendum Resolution, Feb 2026
                                 NMCI IGA Addendum_Final_Feb 2026
                                 Signed Resolution 09-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.F. 26-050              A Resolution Regarding Certain Changes to Colorado Springs Utilities'
                          Electric Rate Schedules

                                   Presenter:
                                 Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities
                                 Tristan Gearhart, Chief Planning and Finance Officer, Colorado Springs
                                 Utilities

              Attachments: ELL Resolution 02-24-2026
                                 ELL Tariffs - Final
                                 ELL Tariffs - Redline
                                 Electric Large Load (ELL) Presentation
                                 Signed Resolution 10-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.G. 26-058              A Resolution Approving an Intergovernmental Agreement Between the
                          City of Colorado Springs, on Behalf of its Enterprise Colorado Springs
                          Utilities and the City of Aurora, Acting Through its Utilities Enterprise,
                          Aurora Water

                          Presenter:

City of Colorado Springs              Page 6                                                       Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                          February 24, 2026

                                 Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities
                                 Kim Gortz, Manager, Water Resource Management, Colorado Springs
                                 Utilities

              Attachments: Agreement between Aurora and Homestake Partners re Wild Horse
                                 Valve Final 1-26-26
                                 WildHorse_TapAgreement IGA Final

                                 CSU-HomestakeWildHorseIGA-RES-2026-01-26-Final

                                 Signed Resolution 11-26.pdf

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.H. 26-064              AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 108 (REGULATION OF
                          ELECTRIC, STREETLIGHT, NATURAL GAS, WATER AND
                          WASTEWATER RATES, CHARGES AND REGULATIONS) OF
                          ARTICLE 1 (GENERAL PROVISIONS) OF CHAPTER 12 (UTILITIES)
                          OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF COLORADO SPRINGS 2001, AS
                          AMENDED, REGARDING UTILITY RATES

                                   Presenter:
                                 Travas Deal, Chief Executive Officer, Colorado Springs Utilities
                                 Renee Congdon, Utilities Division Chief, City Attorney's Office

              Attachments: CC presentation-Code Changes 12-1-108 regarding process for
                                 changing rate
                                 CSU-UtilityRates-ORD-2026-01-28

                                 Redline and explanation of changes to Rate Process for U Board

                                 Rules and Procedures of City Council REDLINE 1-27-26 Rule 4-1,
                                 Rate Process Changes
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-05.pdf

                          This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.

4B.I. 26-007              A Resolution Approving the 2026 Annual Action Plan for the use of
                          federal block grant funds (CDBG, HOME, and ESG) provided through
                          the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

                                   Presenter:
                                 Aimee Cox, Chief Housing and Homelessness Officer
                                 Barb Van Hoy, Policy, Planning and Engagement Coordinator
                                 Housing and Homelessness Response Department

              Attachments: 2026 Action Plan_Council Resolution
                                 2026 AAP for City Council
                                 Graphic Summary City Council
                                 2026 AAP City Council Presentation.v2
                                 Signed Resolution 12-26.pdf

City of Colorado Springs  Page 7                                                                   Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                      February 24, 2026

                          This Resolution was adopted on the Consent Calendar.

4B.J.         SUBD-25-00  An ordinance vacating a portion of the public right-of-way known as East
              76          Boulder Street consisting of approximately 0.92 acres located between
                          N. Nevada Ave. and N. Weber St. (1st Reading only to set the public
                          hearing date for March 10, 2026).
                          (Legislative)

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0026, SUBD-25-0076, LUPL-25-0012

                          Located in Council District 3

                                   Presenter:
                                 Ryan Tefertiller, Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                                 Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

              Attachments: ORD_VacationROW_East Boulder Street
                                 7.5.522 VACATION PLAT
                                 Exhibit A - Boulder ROW Vacation Legal
                                 Exhibit B - Boulder ROW Vacation Plat

                          This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.

4B.K.         ZONE-25-00  An Ordinance to amend the zoning map of the City of Colorado Springs
              26          pertaining to approximately 8.27 acres located within the two blocks
                          bound by North Nevada Avenue, East St. Vrain Street, North Weber
                          Street, and East Platte Avenue from R-1 6/R-5/OR (Single-Family -
                          Medium, Multi-family High, and Office Residential) to FBZ-T2A
                          (Form-Based Zone - Transition Sector 2A). (1st Reading and setting the
                          public hearing date for March 10, 2026).
                          (Quasi-Judicial)

                          Related Files: ZONE-25-0026, SUBD-25-0076, LUPL-25-0012

                          Located in Council District 3

                           Presenter:
                          Ryan Tefertiller, Planning Manager, City Planning Department
                          Kevin Walker, Planning Director, City Planning Department

City of Colorado Springs  Page 8                                                               Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                         February 24, 2026

              Attachments: Zone Ord_ZONE_25-0026
                                 Palmer HS CPC Staff Report 121025
                                 Attachment 1 - Palmer HS Project Statement
                                 Attachment 2 - Palmer HS Zone Change Legal Description
                                 Attachment 3 - Palmer HS Zone Change Exhibit
                                 Attachment 4a - Boulder ROW Vacation Legal
                                 Attachment 4b - Boulder ROW Vacation Plat
                                 Attachment 5 - Palmer HS Land Use Plan
                                 Attachment 6 - Zoning Map
                                 Attachment 7 - Consolidated Stakeholder Input Palmer HS project
                                 022526
                                 Attachment 8 - Palmer HS Stakeholder Responses
                                 Attachment 9 - Palmer HS Steering Committee
                                 Attachment 10 - Palmer HS April 2025 Traffic Study
                                 Attachment 11 ­ Palmer HS Traffic Study Update
                                 7.5.704 ZONING MAP AMENDMENT (REZONING)
                                 DRB_Minutes_11.4.25 Draft
                                 CPC Minutes Excerpt - Palmer High School - 12.10.2025
                                 Palmer HS Staff Presentation City Council 031026
                                 Applicant Presentation - Palmer High School Transformation
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-07.pdf

                              This Ordinance was approved on first reading on the Consent Calendar.
Approval of the Consent Agenda

                                  Motion by President Pro Tem Risley, seconded by Councilmember
                                  Bailey, that all matters on the Consent Calendar be passed, adopted,
                                  and approved by unanimous consent of the members present. The
                                  motion passed by a vote of 9-0-0-0

                          Aye: 9 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Gold, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr.,
                                         Risley, and Williams

5. Recognitions

                                There were no Recognitions.
6. Mayor's Business

    6.A. 26-021           Updates from the Mayor's Representative

City of Colorado Springs       Presenter:
                             Travis Easton, Acting Chief of Staff

                          Travis Easton, Acting Chief of Staff, explained the City is prioritizing

                          Page 9                                                                    Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                             February 24, 2026

                                mitigation efforts for open space areas which are considered high risk for
                                wildfire.

7. Items Called Off Consent Calendar

                                There were no items called off the Consent Calendar.
8. Utilities Business

                                There was no Utilities Business.
9. Unfinished Business

9.A. 25-590               An Ordinance Amending Section 110 (Camping on Public Property
                          Prohibited) and Repealing Section 111 (Camping and Waste Deposit
                          Within Public Stream/Public Stream Riparian Zone Prohibited) of Part 1
                          (General Offenses) of Article 6 (Offenses Affecting Property) and
                          Repealing Section 404 (Camping Restrictions) of Part 4 (Offenses
                          Relating to Persons) of Article 9 (Park Offenses) of Chapter 9 (Public
                          Offenses) of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, As
                          Amended, Pertaining to Camping Regulation, and Providing Penalties
                          for the Violation Thereof.

                                   Presenter:
                                 Dave Donelson, Councilmember District 1
                                 Lieutenant Ryan Tepley, Homeless Outreach Team, Colorado Springs
                                 Police Department
                                 Sergeant Olav Chaney, Homeless Outreach Team, Colorado Springs
                                 Police Department
                                 Emily Vandenberg, Prosecuting Attorney, City Attorney's Office

              Attachments: 2025 Camping Ordinance - Council Presentation
                                 Ch9-OffensesCampingProhibited-ORD-2026-02-04
                                 Appendix to 9.6.110 Camping Prohibited Amendments
                                 2026 Camping Ordinance - Council Presentation Final
                                 Municipal Court Process Outline
                                 Signed Ordinance 26-08.pdf

                              Councilmember Donelson introduced the Ordinance amending the
                              Ordinance pertaining to camping within public stream riparian zones and
                              providing penalties for the violation thereof and stated vehicles will not be
                              impounded as a result of this Ordinance.

                          Citizens Edie Wren, Alycia Erickson, Donna Wintz, Randy Cloud, Rob
                          Campbell, Tim Close, Beth Roalstad, Rabbi Iah Pillsbury, Susan Bolduc,
                          Pastor Dan Holt, Amber Woodside, Linda Goodman-Pillsbury, Marti

City of Colorado Springs  Page 10                                                     Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  Brenardo Garcia, Kari Dahlin, Alexis St. Clare, Ingrid Richter, Sarah
                          Rosson, Taylor Gray, Scott Browne, Jeron Cook, Ronald Williams, Gerald
                          White, Bug Peterson, Forest Andrew, John Crow, Maryah Lauer, and
                          David Ebbinik spoke in opposition of the proposed Ordinance.

                          Councilmember Donelson stated the proposed Ordinance only clarifies the
                          Ordinances which are already in place regarding camping on public
                          property and the number of people sleeping in their vehicles is not a large
                          amount of the homeless population. He stated it is not illegal to be
                          homeless; this Ordinance does not impound vehicles; it addresses specific
                          behavior.

                          Councilmember Leinweber stated he cannot support a person living in their
                          car because living that way supports isolation and loneliness when what
                          they really need is the resources to help them. He stated this Ordinance
                          does not criminalize homelessness; it regulates camping on public land.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if a car could be impounded under this
                          Ordinance. Emily Vandenberg, Prosecuting Attorney, City Attorney's
                          Office, stated under this Ordinance, a vehicle cannot be impounded but if it
                          is violating the City's parking Ordinance which is already in place, it can be
                          after seventy-two hours.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked if it is the City's practice to fine homeless
                          people hundreds of dollars. Ms. Vandenberg stated it is against state law
                          and City Ordinances to collect fines from people who are indigent.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked if a person could be arrested if it was the
                          second occurrence of them sleeping in their car and violating this
                          Ordinance. Shantel Withrow, Attorney, City Attorney's Office, stated they
                          could not, they could only be arrested if they have warrants or other cases
                          which are not related to this particular incident.

                          Councilmember Leinweber requested information regarding how much the
                          City is contributing to homelessness resources. Aimee Cox, Chief
                          Homelessness Response Officer, provided an overview of the funds
                          associated with homelessness services.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked if there is a comprehensive list of all
                          services which address homelessness in Colorado Springs. Ms. Cox

                          Page 11          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

                          confirmed there is a list available from several entities including United
                          Way's 211.

                          Councilmember Leinweber requested information regarding providing safe
                          parking within the City. Ms. Cox stated there are opportunities for safe
                          parking as an accessory use with religious institutions, campground, or
                          homeless shelter and they have met with the party wanting to establish safe
                          parking and it is currently in the review process.

                                Councilmember Henjum stated approximately 809 to 2,000 people
                                experiencing homelessness are living in their vehicles and enforcement
                                only displaces those individuals, it does not solve the challenges related to
                                homelessness.

                                   Motion by President Pro Tem Risley, seconded by Councilmember
                                   Bailey, that the Ordinance amending Section 110 (Camping on Public
                                   Property Prohibited) and repealing Section 111 (Camping and Waste
                                   Deposit Within Public Stream/Public Stream Riparian Zone Prohibited) of
                                   Part 1 (General Offenses) of Article 6 (Offenses Affecting Property) and
                                   repealing Section 404 (Camping Restrictions) of Part 4 (Offenses
                                   Relating to Persons) of Article 9 (Park Offenses) of Chapter 9 (Public
                                   Offenses) of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 2001, as amended,
                                   pertaining to camping regulation, and providing penalties for the
                                   violation thereof be approved on first reading. The motion passed by a
                                   vote of 7-2-0-0

                          Aye: 7 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., Risley, and
                                          Williams

                            No: 2 - Gold, and Henjum

10. New Business

10.A. 26-023              A Resolution making certain legislative findings and approving the
                          Odyssey at North Weber Urban Renewal Plan.

                          Related Files: 26-024

                           Presenter:
                          Jariah Walker, CSURA Executive Director

City of Colorado Springs  Page 12          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                                                  February 24, 2026

              Attachments: Resolution_Odyssey at North Weber_URAPlan
                                 Odyssey at North Weber URA Plan
                                 El Paso County Impact Report-Odyssey at North Weber
                                 CSURA Odyssey at North Weber Existing Conditions Survey
                                 Staff Report_Odyssey at North Weber_TPB
                                 CSURA Odyssey at North Weber Presentation 1 - Project
                                 CSURA Odyssey at North Weber Presentation 2 - Financials
                                 Signed Resolution 13-26.pdf

                          Jariah Walker, Colorado Springs Urban Renewal Authority (CSURA),
                          Executive Director, presented the Resolutions making certain legislative
                          findings and approving the Odyssey at North Weber Urban Renewal Plan
                          and approving a Cooperation Agreement between the CSURA and the
                          City to promote redevelopment and assist with financing of public
                          improvements for the Odyssey at North Weber Urban Renewal project.

                                 Councilmember Henjum requested additional information regarding the
                                 value that this project will bring to the neighborhood it is located in. Mr.
                                 Walker stated there has been a great need for public infrastructure in the
                                 north Nevada Avenue area and this housing development is also located
                                 next to a daycare.

                                  Motion by Councilmember Henjum, seconded by President Pro Tem
                                  Risley, that the Resolution making certain legislative findings and
                                  approving the Odyssey at North Weber Urban Renewal Plan be adopted.
                                  The motion passed by a vote of 9-0-0-0

                          Aye: 9 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Gold, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr.,
                                         Risley, and Williams

10.B. 26-024              A Resolution approving a cooperation agreement between the Colorado
                          Springs Urban Renewal Authority and the City of Colorado Springs to
                          promote redevelopment and assist with financing of public
                          improvements for the Odyssey at North Weber Urban Renewal project
                          pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 31-25-107(9)(a)(II)

                          Related File: 26-023

                                   Presenter:
                                 Jariah Walker, Executive Director, Colorado Springs Urban Renewal
                                 Authority

              Attachments: RES_Odyssey at North Weber_URACooperationAgreement
                                 Odyssey at North Weber Cooperation Agreement CSURA City
                                 Signed Resolution 14-26.pdf

City of Colorado Springs                        Page 13                                    Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes                 February 24, 2026

                                 Please see comments in Agenda item 10.A.

                                  Motion by Councilmember Bailey, seconded by Councilmember Rainey
                                  Jr., that the Resolution approving a Cooperation Agreement between the
                                  Colorado Springs Urban Renewal Authority and the City of Colorado
                                  Springs to promote redevelopment and assist with financing of public
                                  improvements for the Odyssey at North Weber Urban Renewal project
                                  pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 31-25-107(9)(a)(II) be
                                  adopted. The motion passed by a vote of 9-0-0-0

                          Aye: 9 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Donelson, Gold, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr.,
                                         Risley, and Williams

10.C. 26-036              A Resolution making certain legislative findings and approving the
                          Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal Plan.

                          Related Files: 26-026

                                   Presenter:
                                 Jariah Walker, CSURA Executive Director

              Attachments: Resolution_Moreno and Cascade_URAPlan
                                 Moreno and Cascade URA Plan_Final Report
                                 CSURA Moreno and Cascade URA Existing Conditions Survey_Final
                                 Report
                                 El Paso County Impact Report-Moreno and Cascade URA
                                 Staff Report_Moreno and Cascade UR District CPC rbt
                                 Planning Commission Minutes - File #_ URAP-25-0002
                                 CSURA Moreno and Cascade Presentation 1 - Project
                                 CSURA Moreno and Cascade Presentation 2 - Financials
                                 Signed Resolution 15-26.pdf

                              Jariah Walker, Colorado Springs Urban Renewal Authority (CSURA),
                              Executive Director, introduced the Resolutions making certain legislative
                              findings and approving the Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal Plan,
                              approving a Cooperation Agreement between the CSURA and the City to
                              promote redevelopment and assist with financing of public improvements
                              for the Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal project.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if the Mill Street Neighborhood is being
                          renamed New South End and if the Mill Street Neighborhood Preservation
                          Plan has been considered. Mr. Walker stated the term "new south end" is
                          not referencing any neighborhood in particular, just activity which has
                          occurred in this area and this project is enhancing what the Mill Street Plan
                          wanted to be built.

City of Colorado Springs                         Page 14  Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

                          Councilmember Donelson requested a presentation from the developer.
                          President Crow-Iverson polled City Council to see if a presentation from
                          the developer was requested. Consensus of Council did not request a
                          presentation.

                          Citizens Susan Adams and Lauri Andrich spoke in favor of the project.

                          Citizens Frozie Abbot, Mary Sprunger-Froese, Bob Stellick, Katie Miller,
                          E.H. Hoover, Kevin Dexter, Catherine Duarte, Amber Young, Rochelle
                          Taylor, Savannah McDaniel, Matt Jones, Betty Field, Susan Bolduc, Daniel
                          Smith, Hollis Decker, Max Kronstadt, Beth Lindquist, Stephanie Vigil, and
                          Farrah Sutton requested a postponement until a Community Benefit
                          Agreement (CBA) with the developer is established.

                          Councilmember Donelson asked how much the room rates of the hotel will
                          be. Mr. Walker stated the rooms have different rates, but a room can be
                          reserved for $189.00.

                          Councilmember Gold asked if the Mill Street Neighborhood Plan was
                          integrated into the Development Plan. Kevin Walker, Director, Planning
                          Department, provided an overview of the boundaries of the Mill Street
                          Neighborhood Plan and identified where the hotel will be located outside of
                          the Plan.

                          Jeff Finn, Senior Vice President, Nor'Wood Development Group, provided
                          an overview of the project, the Downtown Partnership map boundaries,
                          prior Nor'Wood downtown developments, details of the development,
                          collaboration with the CSURA, meeting with the Mill Street Neighborhood
                          group, the request for a CBA, and proposed housing units. He stated
                          Nor'Wood is not in a position to fix existing homes and conversations with
                          the Mill Street Neighborhood ended January 7, 2026.

                          Councilmember Leinweber asked what makes this a great plan. Mr.
                          Walker stated it cures blight, this area is an extension of Weidner, there will
                          be public improvements, it is attainable housing, and the hotel will generate
                          the Tax Increment Financing (TIF) revenue. Mr. Walker stated the CBA was
                          never brought up during the CSURA Board meetings.

                          Councilmember Leinweber asked what the housing cap will be. Mr. Walker

City of Colorado Springs  Page 15          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

City of Colorado Springs  stated it will be determined by the Department of Local Affairs (DOLA), but
                          it will not be market value rates.

                          Councilmember Bailey stated this project has been in the works for over a
                          year, there are many protections in place, this project makes sense by
                          providing benefits to the broader community, a CBA is tangential to this
                          discussion but is not necessarily germane to the application. He stated the
                          process should be fair and just to everyone, not just the Mill Street
                          neighborhood.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked when the CBA was brought up. Ms. Miller
                          stated in January 2026 due to the lack of communication from the
                          developer.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked what the fear of being displaced is. Ms.
                          Miller stated many of the residents in the neighborhood are renters or are
                          older and on a fixed income.

                          Councilmember Rainey asked when the request for $2 to $3 million came
                          about. Mr. Finn identified the several groups working on behalf of the
                          residents, the CBA was initially targeted towards the parcel where the
                          Drake Power Plant is located and Nor'Wood stated from the beginning that
                          they were not interested in participating in a CBA.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked if the CSURA would consider a CBA. Mr.
                          Walker stated it would not.

                          Councilmember Henjum asked why Nor'Wood would not enter a CBA with
                          the Mill Street Neighborhood. Mr. Finn stated none of the other
                          partnerships that Nor'Wood has entered into with have required a CBA,
                          they found alignment together in order to identify any problems and they do
                          not feel the need to put money in the neighborhood's hand in order to
                          receive support for the development.

                          Councilmember Henjum requested additional information on what the
                          protections include. Mr. Walker stated as part of the Plan, they will itemize
                          every public improvement and those costs, costs associated with building
                          affordability, and when the TIF is being generated, that is when the CSURA
                          will issue something back to the developer. He stated it was always the
                          intent to keep Mill Street residents in the neighborhood, not displace them.

                          Page 16          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

                     Councilmember Donelson asked what the impact would be if this item was
                     postponed until the CBA discussion is worked out. Mr. Walker stated the
                     CBA is outside the CSURA's jurisdiction, so it does not make sense to
                     delay this item for it to be discussed, and the Mill Street Neighborhood did
                     not bring up the CBA during the CSURA Board meeting on this project.

                     Councilmember Donelson asked what Ms. Miller would like to receive from
                     Nor'Wood. Ms. Miller stated she would someday like to be a homeowner in
                     the Mill Street neighborhood so she would like to see affordable housing,
                     and she would like Nor'Wood to pay a community land trust in order to
                     ensure the land is not sold to a developer in the future.

                     Councilmember Donelson asked Mr. Walker if he was familiar with the use
                     of a CBA. Mr. Walker stated he has never used one but is aware that other
                     provisions are used in other jurisdictions.

                     Councilmember Gold asked Ms. Miller what they consider to be affordable
                     housing. Ms. Miller stated for her personally, rent or mortgage payment
                     between $800 to $1,000 per month.

                      Motion by Councilmember Donelson, seconded by Councilmember Gold,
                      that the Resolution making certain legislative findings and approving the
                      Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal Plan be postponed to the March 24,
                      2026 City Council meeting. The motion failed by a vote of 3-6-0-0
              Aye: 3 - Donelson, Gold, and Henjum

               No: 6 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., Risley, and Williams

                      Motion by Councilmember Bailey, seconded by Councilmember Rainey
                      Jr., that the Resolution making certain legislative findings and approving
                      the Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal Plan be adopted. The motion
                      passed by a vote of 7-2-0-0

              Aye: 7 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., Risley, and Williams

               No: 2 - Donelson, and Gold

    10.D. 26-026          A Resolution approving a cooperation agreement between the Colorado
                          Springs Urban Renewal Authority and the City of Colorado Springs to
City of Colorado Springs  promote redevelopment and assist with financing of public
                          improvements for the Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal project and
                          to approve the amount of annual sales tax increment revenue allocated
                          pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 31-25-107(9)(a)(II)

                          Page 17          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

                                   Related File: 26-036

                                     Presenter:
                                   Jariah Walker, Executive Director, Colorado Springs Urban Renewal
                                   Authority

                   Attachments: RES_Moreno and Cascade_Cooperation Agreement
                                       Moreno and Cascade Cooperation Agreement
                                       Signed Resolution 16-26.pdf

                                Please see comments in Agenda item 10.C.

                                   Motion by Councilmember Bailey, seconded by Councilmember Rainey
                                   Jr., that the Resolution approving a Cooperation Agreement between the
                                   Colorado Springs Urban Renewal Authority and the City of Colorado
                                   Springs to promote redevelopment and assist with financing of public
                                   improvements for the Moreno and Cascade Urban Renewal project
                                   pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 31-25-107(9)(a)(II) be
                                   adopted. The motion passed by a vote of 7-2-0-0
                          Aye: 7 - Bailey, Crow-Iverson, Henjum, Leinweber, Rainey Jr., Risley, and Williams
                            No: 2 - Donelson, and Gold

11. Public Hearing

                                There was no Public Hearing.
12. Added Item Agenda

                                There were no items added to the Agenda.
13. One Hour of Citizen Discussion for Items not on Today's Agenda per City
Council Rules

                                Citizen Barbara Montoya spoke about her home insurance being cancelled
                                due to wildfire risk and in opposition of the development planned near
                                Cheyenne Mountain Estates.

                                Citizen Kristen Downs spoke against the closure of Julie Penrose Fountain
                                this season due to budget cuts.

                                Citizen Steve Lightfoot stated Stephen King murdered John Lennon.

                                Citizen Taylor Gray invited City Council to the No Kings protest on March
                                28, 2026 and spoke against the use of metadata.

City of Colorado Springs  Page 18          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes  February 24, 2026

                                Citizen Derek Shetrone spoke against Flock artificial intelligence
                                surveillance cameras and requested the money be spent to fix potholes.

14. Executive Session

14.A. 26-088              In accord with City Charter art. III, § 3-60(d) and its incorporated
                          Colorado Open Meetings Act, C.R.S. § 24-6-402(4)(b), the City Council,
                          in Open Session, is to determine whether it will hold a Closed Executive
                          Session. The issue to be discussed involves receiving legal advice
                          regarding Federal Aviation Administration requirements and grant
                          assurance compliance associated with land development projects near
                          the Colorado Springs Airport.

                          The President of Council shall poll the City Councilmembers, and, upon
                          consent of two-thirds of the members present, may conduct a Closed
                          Executive Session. In the event any City Councilmember is participating
                          electronically or telephonically in the Closed Executive Session, each
                          City Councilmember participating in the Closed Executive Session shall
                          affirmatively state for the record that no other member of the public not
                          authorized to participate in the Closed Executive Session is present or
                          able to hear the matters discussed as part of the Closed Executive
                          Session. If consent to the Closed Executive Session is not given, the
                          item may be discussed in Open Session or withdrawn from
                          consideration.

                                   Presenter:
                                 Marc Smith, Acting City Attorney

              Attachments: ClosedSess-02-24-26

                              Trevor Gloss, Senior Attorney, City Attorney's Office, stated that in accord
                              with City Charter art. III, § 3-60(d) and its incorporated Colorado Open
                              Meetings Act, C.R.S. § 24-6-402(4)(b) and (e), the City Council, in Open
                              Session, is to determine whether it will hold a Closed Executive Session.
                              The issue to be discussed involves receiving legal advice regarding
                              Federal Aviation Administration requirements and grant assurance
                              compliance associated with land development projects near the Colorado
                              Springs Airport.

                          President Crow-Iverson polled City Council regarding the desire to
                          proceed with an electronic Closed Executive Session. At least two-thirds of
                          City Council agreed to proceed in a Closed Executive Session.

15. Adjourn

City of Colorado Springs  Page 19          Printed on 3/27/2026
City Council              Meeting Minutes               February 24, 2026

                          There being no further business to come before City Council, Council
                          adjourned at 5:30 PM.

                          Sarah B. Johnson, City Clerk

City of Colorado Springs  Page 20                       Printed on 3/27/2026
