                                             ORRDDINANCE NOO. 266-0088

                   ANN ORDDINANCE AMENDINGG SECCTTIIOONN 1100 (CAMPINGG ONN
                   PUUBBLLIICC PROOPPEERRTTYY PRROOHHIIBBIITTEEDD)) AND REPPEEAALLIINGG SEECCTTIIOONN
                   11111 (CAMPINGG AND WASTE DEPOSSIIT WITHIN PPUUBBLLIICC
                   STRREEAAMM/PPUUBBLLIC STRREEAAMM RIPPAARRJIAANN ZONE PPRROOHHIIBBIITTEEDD)) OF
                   PAARRTT 1 (GENEERRAALL OFFENSESS)) OF ARTICLE 6 (OFFENSESS
                   AFFECCTTING PRROOPPEERRTTYY)) AND REPPEEAALLIINGG SEECCTTIIOONN 404
                   (CAMPINGG RESSTTRRIICCTTIIONSS)) OF PART 4 (OFFENSES REELLATINGG
                   TO PERSSOONNSS)) OF ARTICLE 9 (PARK OFFENSESS)) OF CHAPTERR
                   9 (PUBBLLIC OFFENSESS)) OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF
                   COLORRAADO SPPRRIINGSS 200011,, AS AMENDED,, PEERRTTAAIINNIINNGG TO
                   CAMPING REEGGUULLAATTIIOONN,, AND PRROOVVIIDDIINGG PPEENNAALLTIESS FORR
                   THE VIOLATION THEREOF

         NOWW,, THEREFORE, BEE IT ORRDDAAINED BYY THE CITY COOUUNNCCIILL OF THE CITY OF

COLORRAADO SPPRRIINGSS::

         Seeccttiionn 1.. Seeccttiion 1100 (Camping on Puubblliicc Propeerrttyy Prohhiibbiiteedd)) of Paarrtt 1 (Geneerraall

Offfeensess)) of Article 6 (Offffeennsses Afffeecting Propeerrttyy)) of Chapter 9 (Puubblliic Offfeensess)) of the Code of

the City of Colorado Springs 20011,, as amended, is amended to read as follloows:

9.6.11100:: CAMPPIINGG ON PPUUBBLLIICC PROPPEERRTTYY PPRROOHHIIBBIITTEEDD::

(Ar-) It is unlaawwffuull for any perrssoonn to camp on any pubbllic property, excepptt as may boe speeccificaallly
authorized by thoe appropriiaate ggovveernmental aauthoorrity. LLeeggiisslative DDeecclaration: The City
Councciill fiinndds and declares that urban camping causes conditions that adverseelly affect the
conttrrooll of communicable diisseasess,, the physsiiccaall and mentaall healthh of the commuunniittyy, the
provissiionn of puubbllic inffrraastructure seerrvicess,, and the safety and geneerraall welfare of the people
and therefore requires the estaabblishment and enforcement of camping prohibitions.
RReegulationn of camping withinn the City is a matterr of locaall conceerrnn and protects the health,
saaffettyy, and welfare of the residents of, and viissitors to, the City of Colorado Springs. This
seeccttiionn is enacted under the City Councciil''s police powerss and under the City Councciill''s
legislattive authoorriity grantedd by Colorado Constitution article XX, seeccttiionn 6 and the City
Charter.

(Br.) Forr puurrppoosses ooff this section ""ccammpp"" or ""ccamppiinngg"" means ttoo useo thoe public aarreea for lliivviinng
accommodaattion iinncclluuding, but nott lliimmiittoed to, thoe activiittiiees and ciirrccuummssttaanncceess lliissted below. Thecsoe
activitiiees and ciirrccuummssttaannccees mmaayy be considered inn deteerrmmiining wwhhoethoer reoacsonaabblloe grroouunnddss ffor
bellief havee ariissoen that aa perrssoon has ""ccampeedd"" or iiss ""ccamppiinngg"" inn viollaation ooff this section.

         11. Sleeeppiinngg or making prreeparations ttoo sslleep, iinncluding thoe llyyiinng ddown of bedding for
         theo ppuurrppose of sleeping.
         2.. Occuppyying aa sheolltoer out off doors. ""SSheolltteorr"" shhaalll mmoean any cover or prrootectiioon fromm
         theo eelleemmeents otherrthan clothing, such as aa tent, shack, sleeping bag, or othoerr structure
         or mmateerriiaall..

         3. Thoe pprreessence or useo ooff aa camppffire, camp sttoove or other heoating sourrccee or cooking
         device.
4`1., Keepingg oor storriing persoonnaall ppropeerrttyy.. DDeeffiinniittiioons:

(1) CAMP or CAMPING: UUsingg a pubbllic area for humann habitattionn.. With
conssiideraattiion for the totaallity of the circummsstancess,, evidence of humann habitation
may includee,, but is not limited to, observations of any one or more of the following:

         (a) Sleepingg,, or layingg out or collecting sleeping materialss.. ""Slleeping
         materialss"" includess,, but is not limited to, sleeping bagss,, bedrollss,, blankets,,
         sheetss,, pillows, bedddiingg,, any other item ffaasshioned for use as a covering, or
         any other itemm fashioned for use as a mattresss;;

         (b) Occupying a shelter outdoorss;;

         (c) TThhe presence or use of a camppffire, camp stoovvee,, other heatingg source,
         or cooking device;

         (d) The presence of food, water, cookwaree,, or kitchenn utenssiilss;;

         (e) The presence of persoonnaall hygiene items;;

         (f) Evviiddencee of urinationn or defecationn;

         (g) The presencee of devices used to store or transport perssoonnaall propeerrttyy,,
         includiinngg,, but nott limitedd to, shopppiingg carts, wwaagonss,, buggiess,, carts,
         suitcasess,, or other improvised storage or transportaattiion devicess;;

         (h) The presence of persoonnaall propeerrttyy; or

         (i) The presencee of wwaaste inn the immediate areaa..

(2) MOTOR VEHICLE: Any seellf-propelled vehicle that is designedd primaarriilly for
traveell on the pubbllic highways and that is geneerraalllly and commonnlly usedd to transport
persons or propeerrttyy over the pubbllicc highwayss.. For purposes of this seccttiion, the
term does not include electricaall assisted bicycless,, electric scooters, low-power
scooterss,, wwhheelchairs, or vehicles moved solely by human power.

(3) PARRKK:: TThhoose open spacess,, areas, or facilitiiees designated by the City or other
governmennttaall authhoorriittyy for pubbllicc usee or pubbllic purposess.. Parkk includess,, butt is nott
limitedd to, spaces intended for recreaattiionn,, enjoyment, playy,, soocciiaall interaccttiionn,,
community prograammmmiinngg,, or athletic activitiess;; spaces designated as parks by
official s ignagee;; and areas reserved for natuurraall or environmentaal reasonss,, such as
presseerrvvaattiioonn of wildlife; vegetattiionn;; waterways; or significant natuurraall,, culturaall, or
histoorriicc resourcess.. Parrkk iincludess aallll trees,, plantss,, shrubss,, andd vegetation; alll
natuurraall terrain formations; allll histoorriiccaall,, culturaall, archaaeeoollooggiiccaall,, and
paleontoolloggiiccaall resourcess;; all rockss,, stoness,, and boulderss;; and all immpprovements
to park areas such as structuress,, tables, benchess,, railingss,, ffeences, signss,, ffountains,
canopies, pavilionss,, roadss,, sidewalks, trails, ffiirreeppllaacces, buildingss,, bridgess,,
bleacherss,, playing fiieelldds, and equipped play areas locatedd within a parkk..

(4) PPUUBBLLIICC PRROOPPEERRTTYY:: Proppeerrttyy,, includingg groundss,, buildingss,, or other
facilitiiees, that is ownedd,, leasedd,, manageedd,, or maintainedd by the City or another
governmennttaall authhoorriittyy. Pubbllicc Propeerrttyy iinncludess,, but is not limited to, a highwaayy,
highway mediann,, sSttreet, street mediann,, roadd,, road mediann,, alley, sideewwaallkk, sSttriipps of
         land betweenn streets and sideewwalkss,, laness,, catch basinss,, pedessttrriiaann or transit maallll,
         bikee pathh,, greeennwwaayy,, pubbllic parkingg lot, or any other structure or area encomppaassed
         within the pubbllic rightt--ooff-waayy;; any paarrkk,, parkwaayy,, mountaaiinn paarrkk,, openn spacee,,
         natuurraall areaa,, traaiil, playgrounndd,, or other City or government owned or maintained
         recreaattiioonnaall facciility; and stormwater inffrraastructure succhh as,, but not limitedd to,
         bridgess,, pipess,, inletss,, and culvertss..

         (5) SHELTER: Any cover or protectionn from the elements other than clothing,
         includingg,, but not limited to, a tent, shaacckk,, vehicle, sleeping bag, blanket, tarp,
         improvisedd structuurree,, or other structure or mateerriiaall..

         (6) STRREEAAMM:: Any natuurraall,, altered, or improvedd channels that have seassoonnaall or
         continuous water flows, wwhhether wet or dry. Stream includes any wet or dry
         naturraallllyy occurring or manmade bodies of wwaater surrounded by land in whichh wwater
         is confineedd.. Streamm also iincludess wet or dry channelss,, canalss,, streambedss,,
         streammbankss,, drainageewwayss,, fllooodways, holdingg and silting basinss,, resseerrvvooiirss,,
         lakess,, and pondss..

         (7) STRREEAAMM RIPAARRIIAANN ZONE: TThe pubbllic landd area that extends one hundredd
         feet (10000'') away from the edge of the streaammbbaannkk..

         (8) STRREEAAMMBAANNK: The terrain alongside streaamm betweenn which the flow of
         water or body of water is confinedd..

         (9) WASTE: Any rubbisshh;; unuseedd,, rejectedd or discarded materiaall(ss));; feces;
         garbaggee;; trash; refusee;; debriss;; any mateerriiaall of no apparent value; or other foreign
         substances of every form, siizee,, kindd,, and dessccrriippttiionn..

(C)) VViioollaattiionss::

         (1)) Streaamm Campingg::

                   (a) It iss unnllaawwffuull for any perssoonn to camp within any streaamm or stream
                   ripariann zone.

                   (b) It is unlaawwffuull for any personn to knowingglly or recklessslly deposit any
                  waste, place any wastee,, or permmiitt any waste to bee deposited or placedd within
                   any streaamm or streeaamm ripariann zone unlesss::

                            (i) The area is designated by the State or any of its agencies or
                            politiccaall subddiivisionss,, includingg the City, for the dispossaall of the
                            wwaastee,, and the perssoonn iss authoriizedd by the appropriate governmeennttaall
                            authorriity to so use the propeerrttyy;; or

                            (ii) The wwaaste is placedd inn a receptacclle or container useedd within
                            the area for the purpossee..

         (2) Publlicc Properrttyy CCaampingg:: It is unlaawwffuull for any persoonn to camp on any public
         proppeerrttyy..

         (3) VVeehicle Campingg:: It is unlaawwffuull for any personn to camp in a motor vehicle on
         any publlicc propeerrttyy..
                   (a) No perssoonn may be cited for VVeehicle Campingg unless that perssoonn hass
                   beeenn wwaarned by law enforcement that VVeehhicle Camping is prohibited on any
                   publlicc propertty inn the Cityy;; and

                   (b) MMoore than twenty-four (24) hourss have llapseedd since that persoonn
                   receeiivedd the warning.

                   (c) A verbaall warning is suuffficient. Evviiddence of a prior citation for VVeehhicle
                   Camping is prima facie evidence that a personn has been warned.

(D0)) Culpaabbiilliittyy:: Excepptt for subsseeccttiioonn (C)(1)(b), the requiredd menttaall state to prove a
violationn of this seccttiion is whether the perssoonn knowingly camped. The mentaall state does
not apply to the locationn of the camp or type of camping.

(E) Affffiirrmmative Defensee:: It shhaallll bee an affirmative defense to a violation of this seccttiion
that the perssoonn hadd authoorriizattiioonn from the appropriate governmeennttaall authoorriity to camp at
the locatioonn of the violationn on the date of the violation.

(F) Severraabbiilliity: It is herebbyy declared to be the intention of the City Councciill that each
and every part of this seccttiionn is severable. If any term, phrasee,, clause, sentence, or
paragraph of this seccttiion is declared unconssttiittuuttiioonnaall or invalid by the judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdictionn,, the unconssttiittuuttiioonnaalliittyy or invalidity shhaallll not affect
any of the remainingg phrasess,, clausess,, sentencess,, or paragraphs since the remainingg
provisionss would have been enacted by the City Counncciill wiitthhout the incorporattiionn inn this
Code of any unconssttiittuuttiioonnaall or invalidd term, phrassee,, clausee,, sentence, or paragraphh..

         Seeccttiion 2. Seeccttiion 11111 (Campingg and Waste DDeepossiit Within Puubblliic Streaamm//PPuubblliic

Stream Riparian Zone Prohhiibbiiteedd)) of Paarrt 1 (Geneerraall Offfeennsess)) of Artiiccllee 6 (Offffeennsses AAffffeecting

Proppeerrttyy)) of Chapter 9 (Pubbllic Offffeennsess)) of the Code of the City of Colorado Springs 20011,, as

amendedd,, iss amended iss hereebbyy repeaalleedd..

         Seccttiion 3. Seccttiion 404 (Camping Restrictions) of Paarrt 4 (OOffffeennsses Relating To

Peerssoonnss)) of Articcle 9 (Park Offffeennsess)) of Chapter 9 (Pubbllic Offfeennsess)) of the Code of the City of

Colorado Springs 20011,, as amendeedd,, is hereebbyy repeaalleedd and reseerrvveedd..

         Seccttiion 4. Any personn convicted of viioollating Secttion 1100 ((CCampiingg on Pubblliicc Propeerrtty

Proohhiibbiiteedd)) of Paarrtt 1 (Geneerraall Offfeennsess)) of Article 6 (Offffeennsses AAffffeecting Proppeerrttyy)) of Chapter 9

(Pubbllic Offffeennssess)) shhaallll be punishedd as provided inn Seccttiion 1100 (Penaalltiess)) of Paarrtt 1 (General

Provisionss)) of AArrtiiccle 1 (AAddmmiinniisstration and Enffoorcemeenntt)) of Chapter 9 (Pubbllic Offffeennssess)) of the

Code of the City of Colorado Springs 200011,, as amendeedd..

         Seccttiion 5. This ordiinnance shhaallll be in fuulll force and effect from and after its fiinnal

adoppttiion and pubbllicaattiionn as provided by Charterr.
                                           __________________________

         Section 66.. Couunncciill deems it appropriate that this ordinance be publiisshedd by title and
summaarryy preparedd by the City Clerk andd that this ordinance be avaaiilable for inspeeccttiion and
accqquuiissiittiion inn the offiicce of the City Clerkk..

         IInnttrroodducedd,, reaadd,, passeedd on fiirrsst reaaddiinngg and orderedd publiisshed this 2244th daayy of Februaarryy
20266..

Finalllyy ppassseedd:: MMaarchh 10, 20266

                                           Lynette row-Iverson, Council President
                            __________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _______,  _________________  ___

MMaayyor''s AAcction:
---r_l.3_,_&_o_)._ V                          _
    Approved on        --   2(13oL,                , baasseedd onn the following objectionss::

El  DDiissapproveedd onn

                                              B` lesa sing d A. M oe ,M   or

Councciill Action After DDiissapproovvaall::

Li  Couunncciill didd not act to override the Mayor''s veto.

ii  Finaalllly adopted on a vote of                           , onn                      _

ii  Couunncciill action on                    failleed to override the MMaayor''s veto.

ATTESSTT::                                    LLyynneettttee Crow-Ivveerson, Couunncciill President

2AA «R.

Saraahh B. Johnssoonn,, City Clerk

                                                                                                            19 CcAO0:: Y3

                                                                                                            CCOOSS::
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing ordinanc e entitled "AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING SECTION 110 (CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED) AND
REPEALING SECTION 111 (CAMPING AND WASTE DEPOSIT WITHIN PUBLIC
STREAM/PUBLIC STREAM RIPARIAN ZONE PROHIBITED) OF PART 1 (GENERAL
OFFENSESJ OF ARTICLE 6 (OFFENSES AFFECTING PROPERTY} AND REPEALING
SECTION 404 (CAMPING RESTRICTIONS) OF PART 4 (OFFENSES RELATING TO
PERSONS) OF ARTICLE 9 (PARK OFFENSES) OF CHAPTER 9 (PUBLIC
OFFENSES) OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF COLORADO SPRINGS 2001, AS
AMENDED, PERTAINING TO CAMPING REGULATION, AND PROVIDING
PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF" was introduced and read at a regular
meeting of the City Council of the City of Colorado Springs, held on February 24, 2026;
that said ordinance was finally passed at a regular meeting of the City Council of said
City, held on the 10th day of March 2026, and that the same was published by title and
in summary or title and in full, in accordance with Section 3-80 of Article Ill of the Charter,
a newspaper published and in general circulation in the Gazette, at least ten days before
its passage.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the

City, 10th day of March 2026

pt Publication Date: February 27, 2026  Sarah B. Johnson, City Clerk
2nd Publication Date: March 18, 2026
                                        Initial:
Effective Date: March 24, 2026          City Clerk
