In exchange for $75 million subsidy, Incline Village developer is only required to build 60 housing units - Duluth Monitor Sign in Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Password recovery Recover your password your email Search 50.5 F Duluth My account Get into your account. Login Register Search Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Search View all St. Louis County DULUTH In exchange for $75 million subsidy, Incline Village developer is only required to build 60 housing units By: Mark A. Baker Date: July 27, 2024 Share: Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp In March of 2023, the new Lincoln Park Flats apartments, located at 2102 West Superior Street, conve... A subscription is required to access this article. Subscribe or click login below: Login Tags Incline Village Lazar Ostreicher SubReq TIF Mark A. Baker Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp a d v e r t i s e m e n t ━ more like this Proctor Proctor expands North 40 Trail, adds bridges and boardwalks October 4, 2026 0 In 2023, the City of Proctor constructed a trail loop on a city-owned 40-acre parcel on the north end of town—the North 40 Trail.... Hermantown New Hermantown Charter Commission prepares to redefine city government September 30, 2026 1 On Sept. 21, 2026, Sixth Judicial District Chief Judge Rachel Sullivan signed an order to establish a seven-member Charter Commission for the City of... St. Louis County Authorities consider enhanced charges for Mahtowa woman following death of DWI victim September 27, 2026 0 On Aug. 3, 2026, when St. Louis County Sheriff’s deputies responded to a motor vehicle accident on Midway Road, near the I-35 on-ramp, they... DULUTH DECC seeks naming rights agreement to keep ice in DECC Arena September 25, 2026 0 Although the Duluth Entertainment Convention Center (DECC) has been planning to eliminate ice sports from the DECC Arena since 2023, DECC Executive Director Dan... Douglas County As competition grows, Superior continues expansion of broadband network September 23, 2026 1 The Superior City Council approved Ordinance 23-4326 on Nov. 7, 2023, authorizing the creation of a municipal broadband utility, Connect Superior. The city broke... a d v e r t i s e m e n t Previous article Andrew Deyette allegedly violated restraining order multiple times following arrest Next article Gary Doty and the bird: A day at the Aquarium 1 COMMENT Mike Casey July 29, 2024 At 2:56 pm So as I read this, and understanding that out at RiverWest where there are no actual hotels, but only owner-occupied vacation rentals with no permit for vacation dwellings, I think the same will happen at the Incline project. A little about RiverWest: When I asked Senior City Planner Jenn Moses how they can be operating vacation dwellings as hotels and to please send me the documents supporting her response, she replied simply saying, "Hi Mike, Sorry for the [seven-week] delay, but I want to make sure to respond to your email. I can share with you that Riverwest is in compliance." Yup, that's it, assurance with nothing to back it up. It doesn't take much understanding to know why no documents were shared, because the ones they have just don't cut it. So at the Incline site, I would expect much more of the same. For all these housing hawks on the council, I feel that they are severely underqualified and undereducated on city ordinances, and unable to state with assurance that all developers and individuals are operating within the rules. We know this isn't true at all, thanks to the reporting from the Monitor and others asking questions. All it will take is a developer with a good local attorney, say Bill Burns and his firm (which is an investor at RiverWest and represents the Incline project), to invest in a vacation dwelling or better yet "hotel" without the front desk or 24-hour staff and bypass all the paperwork and fees like RiverWest did. It's just a matter of time before the City is held liable, but then again it will take real leadership to stand up to the snowball currently rolling down from the shining city on the hill to stop the madness. Councilor Wendy Durrwachter is all alone in demanding accountability, but I'm sure she will try. The other eight must be looking forward to another position in politics or within the City Administration. It will take serious courage to ask the tough questions and vote no or to table these requests that ALWAYS need to happen NOW! Reply LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply Comment: Please enter your comment! Name:* Please enter your name here Email:* You have entered an incorrect email address! Please enter your email address here Website: Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. REGIONAL NEWS & INVESTIGATIONS PO BOX 161702, Duluth MN 55816 Email contact@duluthmonitor.com Phone (218) 391 - 8791 Links Subscribe Minnesota Wisconsin School District Outside Region Log In Follow Us Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Free Newsletter Send - All rights reserved.