Duluth residents file lawsuit over alleged miscounted petition signatures - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth residents file lawsuit over alleged miscounted petition signatures By WDIO --> Duluth residents file lawsuit over alleged miscounted petition signatures On Thursday, residents of Duluth held a press conference at Duluth City Hall to discuss their decision to file a lawsuit against the city, demanding the City Clerk recount petition signatures. In early 2026, Duluth residents created and signed a petition to let the communities voice be heard in regard to the Lester Park Golf Course. The petition needed a certain number of signatures to force the issue onto November's ballot. Michael Bernstein, a member of "Our Park Our Vote," claims the petition's signatures were mostly verified by members of the organization prior to it being sent to the City Clerk for final validation. When the City Clerk returned the petition, the number of valid signatures was under the amount needed. "I asked a lot of questions before showing up. My understanding is there are 152 sheets that were not counted. They were supposed to, after they filed, the clerk's office has by charter 10 days to count and verify those signatures. They verified what they thought was the total count. This group is claiming it is not the total count," said Duluth City Council member Wendy Durrwachter, who attended the press conference. "So, the charter also states they have 10 additional days to remedy that. And the remedy is the ask of &#8216;we noticed you didn't count 152 pages, please finish.' That deadline is tomorrow. And so that's the ask. The ask is very simple, just demanding that the clerk's office finish counting those 152 sheets." Bernstein and others filing the lawsuit urge city officials to call an emergency meeting to direct the City Clerk to recount the petition's signatures before the lawsuit goes to court. For Related Stories: Duluth lawsuit Lester Park --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow