Duluth City Councilors advocate strong federal clean car standards - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Councilors advocate strong federal clean car standards William Lien WDIO --> Duluth City Councilors advocate strong federal clean car standards Duluth City Councilors Mike Mayou and Wendy Durrwachter advocate for stronger federal clean car standards to help Minnesota become free of car emissions by 2050. Duluth City Councilors Mike Mayou and Wendy Durrwachter advocate for stronger federal clean car standards. The goal is to help Minnesota become free of car emissions by 2050. Minnesota also implemented clean car standards on January 1st of 2024. Although this will impact 2025 car models to have less tailpipe pollutions. Public health officials in addition with Duluth City Councilors advocate Minnesota to a zero emission future. “Obviously we need to continue to see more investment in clean car standards," Councilor Mayou said. "When we talk about tailpipe emissions, they are the leading sector of carbon emissions here in the state of Minnesota.” Councilor Wendy Durrwachter also said one way people in the northland can help reduce carbon emissions is with electric vehicles. “Consumer Reports analysis shows that compared to gas-powered cars, EV owners save an average of $4,600 on repair and maintenance costs over the vehicle's lifetime," Councilor Durrwachter said. "I'm all for cars being preserved and kept longer as we put less cars into the waste landfills. We're calling on the Biden administration and the EPA to finalize the strongest possible federal clean car standards by the end of this month.” J. Drake Hamilton, the Senior Director of Science Policy with Fresh Energy, said the clean car standard, however, does not limit people's driving choices. "We support the EPA's finalizing the clean car standard that will reduce pollution from cars and trucks and increase production of EVs and plug-in hybrids. The clean car standard does not mandate EVs," Hamilton said. "However, switching to EVs will immediately improve air quality in the communities where they are driven.” Hamilton said reducing carbon emissions doesn’t just help the environment it also helps people with respiratory issues. Berg Ellenberger with Alliance of Nurses for Healthy Environments said the goal of making Minnesota’s transportation emission free could help people live longer lives. “If we had an environment of zero emission transportation from 2020 to 2050, that tat would prevent over 1,350 premature deaths. It would prevent 36,600 asthma attacks," Ellenberger said. "By setting strong clean car standards, we can save lives, jobs and well-being.” According to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the auto industry successfully meets the low-emission standard since 2012. LEV-certified vehicles are already what’s for sale on Minnesota lots. The federal emissions standard and the LEV standard were the same from 2012 until 2020. All new vehicles in Minnesota from 2012-2020 are low-emission vehicles. For more tips on how to reduce carbon emission habits you can read more here . Also for other stories about electric vehicles you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Electric Vehicle William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow