Councilor advocates for Duluth EPA Lab - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Councilor advocates for Duluth EPA Lab Alex Sapp WDIO --> City Councilor advocates for EPA Lab Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Amid recent Federal cuts, some in the Northland are worried about the potential closure of the Great Lakes Toxicology and Ecology Division Laboratory (GLTED) EPA Lab in East Duluth. Now &#8211; a local elected official wants the city to officially advocate for it's future. On May 7, City Councilor Wendy Durrwachter held a press conference across the street from the lab to show support. Councilor Durrwachter represents the 1st council district, which includes much of East Duluth, including the Lab. She says several constituents have reached out to her directly with their worries. "They're concern about the research not being able to support the PFAS study, removing forever chemicals from the lake. Also, the discontinuation of research to clean up the St. Louis River Estuary. Also, the 136 jobs. That is a really big concern." Councilor Durrwachter said in an interview with WDIO. Now, she'll be asking her fellow councilors to support a resolution urging the federal government to "preserve the Duluth EPA Lab in recognition of the critical role it performs in protecting the health of the Great Lakes." She was joined by two other speakers, including a water quality coordinator, and a former employee of the lab. "If you like to swim in that lake and you like your great, clean drinking water that we have here in Duluth, and it is amazing, you need to be, you want this lab to continue to exist, because that's what they're concerned about." said Amy Westbrook, who worked in administration at the lab. She added that she fears a loss in communication to the public about the lake. And while many are concerned about the future of those who work for the lab, others worry about the impacts of a potential closure on those who work with it. "It would be the loss of a really valued partnership, said Nancy Schuldt, the Water Coordinator for the Fond du Lac Band, "There's a unique relationship between tribal nations and federal governmental agencies. And for us to be able to turn to an EPA research lab right in our backyard has been invaluable. "They've been leaders in helping to understand, in particular, the mercury problem that we have here, mercury and fish. Of course, that's really, really important to tribal members who are trying to practice traditional life ways." Schuldt added. WDIO reached out directly to the EPA to inquire about the current status of the lab, and received the following response. "On Friday, EPA announced the next phase of organizational improvements to the agency to better provide clean air, water, and land for all Americans. These workforce changes impact the Office of the Administrator, Office of Air and Radiation, Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention (OCSPP), and Office of Water. With this action, EPA is delivering organizational improvements to the personnel structure that will directly benefit the American people and better advance the agency’s core mission, while Powering the Great American Comeback. The Office of Research and Development (ORD), as well as the Great Lakes Toxicology and Ecology Division (GLTED) Lab in Duluth are not part of this reorganization." For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council EPA --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow