Seven women to sit on the Duluth City Council after the 2023 election - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Seven women to sit on the Duluth City Council after the 2023 election By WDIO --> Seven women to serve on Duluth City Council after 2023 election, with Forsman perspective A look at the changing Duluth City Council, plus an update from Arik Forsman. Three women will join the Duluth City Council in January. Tara Swenson, Lynn Marie Nephew, and Wendy Durrwachter will represent the citizens in the city. They will make a total of seven women on the council, likely the most in the city's history. Swenson told us that she's very humbled that Duluth believed in her. "I'm very excited, and we have lots of work to do now. Close one chapter with the campaign, and open another chapter." She will represent District 4. The mom of two is proud to get to be part of this transition. "I've talked to a few people this morning. New people coming into the council and different voices coming to the table. It's a great opportunity for Duluth," she added. For Lynn Marie Nephew, an incoming At-Large councilor, she's excited to be among the new eyes on the issues. And she is happy to see so many ladies who are leading. "It's about time, is the first thing I'd say. Because not that long ago, it was a big deal to have a woman on the council," Nephew told us. Public safety and housing remain some of her priorities. And Wendy Durrwachter will be representing District 1. "I'm looking forward to being part of the team, and working with others." She'll be prepping for what's to come. "My goal is to be as transparent as possible. And really be an excellent listener," Durrwachter said. At-Large Councilor Arik Forsman, who was re-elected, said he's looking forward to helping on-board the new members. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Elections --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow