Durrwachter to run for City Council - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Durrwachter to run for City Council She plans to enter the race for the 1st District seat currently held by Gary Anderson. The two-term councilor has said he won't seek reelection. Wendy Durrwachter. Contributed / Wendy Durrwachter By Jimmy Lovrien April 07, 2023 at 9:53 AM Listen Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — A Lakeside composer is expected to run for Duluth City Council. In a news release Friday morning, Wendy Durrwachter said she plans to enter the race for the 1st District seat next week. The seat is currently held by Gary Anderson. The two-term councilor has said he won't seek reelection. ADVERTISEMENT Read more Yeakle to enter Duluth City Council race Alstead becomes fourth Duluth City Councilor to rule out another term 3 more candidates enter Duluth City Council race Tarnowski to enter race for Duluth City Council's 5th District Forsman becomes third Duluth city councilor to not seek reelection Anderson, Hobbs won't run again for Duluth City Council The district covers the easternmost neighborhoods of Duluth. Durrwachter said she raised her children as a single mother working multiple jobs, usually as a restaurant server, while pursuing her passion for music. She is now a composer with musical works performed across the country, she said. “I know what it’s like to have your kids leave after high school and wonder if they will be able to return to the city they grew up in,” Durrwachter said. “I will focus on doing the work to ensure Duluth stays a great place to call home.” Durrwachter is planning to formally launch her campaign at 10 a.m. Monday at Hawks Ridge Overlook in Duluth. Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article What To Read Next Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 1d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 1d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.