City Council votes to increase Duluth police chief&#039;s salary - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture City Council votes to increase Duluth police chief's salary By WDIO --> Duluth City Council approves police chief's salary increase Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team In a vote during Monday's Duluth City Council meeting, Police Chief Mike Ceynowa will receive a salary of $207,489 — a pay increase of over $46,000 from 2022. The raise comes after two recent whistleblower lawsuits against the City of Duluth, alleging retaliation, discrimination, and troubling behavior by department leadership. RELATED: Retired Duluth PD lieutenant sues city Second "whistleblower" lawsuit within past six months filed against City of Duluth "Am I understanding that not only is the city okay with employing a police chief that cultivates such a culture, but you also want to give that person a raise?" said Andrew St. Croix during public comment. In support of the raise, council member Roz Randorf said approving Ceynowa's contract is not a statement about an outcome of a pending lawsuit. "It would be inappropriate for us as a council to impose discipline or to delay compensation decisions based solely on allegations that have not yet been adjudicated," said Randorf. "My vote will be based on the chief's overall performance, operational leadership, crime reduction efforts, staffing challenges, budgeting responsibilities, and department management, not unresolved litigation." Council member, Wendy Durrwachter expressed her concerns with rising costs and supporting the greater Duluth community. "We must moderate our spending and not forget the struggles of our citizens in times of $6 per dozen eggs and $5 per gallon of gas," said Durrwachter. "The median household income in Duluth is below $70,000 and we have one of the highest poverty rates in the state at 17%. The only increases we should be considering at this time are those that ensure that all residents thrive above the poverty line with living wages. Those against the pay increase also said the council should invest in public services. "Aren't we in a budget crisis? I remember this fall fighting for the library, for busing, for all of these essential priorities that help take care of our most vulnerable community members," said community member, Eleanor Dolan. "Our number one priority is DPD, even though it's already eating up a quarter of our budget." The decision to increase his salary is said to retain employees and talent. For Related Stories: Fatima Avalos Duluth City Council Duluth Police Department --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow