Council approves subsidy for housing development at former Duluth Central site - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Council approves subsidy for housing development at former Duluth Central site The project's first phase will bring 340 housing units to town and sets the stage for much more to come. A rendering of Incline Village presented to the Duluth Economic Development Authority. Contributed / DEDA By Peter Passi June 10, 2024 at 10:36 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — City councilors signed off on the first dose of tax increment financing for an ambitious initiative to turn the former Duluth Central High School campus into a housing development. On Monday, the council voted 7-1 to provide about $75 million in tax increment financing for the first phase of Incline Village, which would include the construction of 120 condominiums, as well as a 220-unit apartment building, for starters. ADVERTISEMENT But the present value of the 26-year package is closer to $30 million, according to Chad Ronchetti, director of Duluth’s planning and economic development division. Tax increment financing is a form of public subsidy that captures new property taxes generated by a development and uses them to cover certain qualified costs for a period of time. Eventually, the full value of the property hits the tax rolls, and in the case of the proposed Incline Village project, that will add about $170.9 million to the local tax base with phase one. The developer anticipates follow-on investments to the total tune of about $500 million across the site. But 1st District Councilor Wendy Durrwachter said she could not support the TIF package in the absence of any affordable housing component as part of the development. Current plans call for the construction of only market-rate housing in the first stage of Incline Village, although the developer has agreed to consider affordable housing elements in subsequent phases of the project. also read Developer pulls plug on controversial housing project in Duluth May 25, 2024 Duluth to consider $600,000 settlement for man shot by police Jun 5, 2024 Duluth council supports more flexibility in use of pandemic funds May 29, 2024 That future affordable housing commitment remains a key to 2nd District Councilor Mike Mayou’s continued support of subsidies for the project. “As we move to these secondary phases … I want to make it known that here and now, I want to see affordable housing in those future phases,” he said. At large Councilor Azrin Awal also expressed disappointment that affordable housing hadn’t been included in the development plans from the start. ADVERTISEMENT “Ideally, I would have loved to see affordable housing included right from the beginning. But I understand what is needed to make this development move forward and not just have that lot continue to be vacant,” she said. Nevertheless, Awal said she remains optimistic future phases of the project will include affordable housing, and suggested the extension of basic infrastructure to the site should make that more feasible. Arik Forsman explained why he supports the project, saying, “Duluthians have been waiting over a dozen years to see activity at this site, and we know that our No. 1 need in the community is housing.” Lynn Marie Nephew, who represents the city at large, agreed that Duluth’s need for additional housing remains acute. “I would argue that housing of any kind takes pressure off the system and opens up a unit for someone else,” she said, noting that the 340 units the project promises to bring will help ease demand in the local market. Council President Roz Randorf, who represents Duluth’s 3rd District, where Incline Village will be built, said, “This is an amazing project. It will mean jobs. It’s going to mean our economy will be benefited by this, and the number of homes for families and for folks that work and for seniors is going to be amazing.” Durrwachter cast the sole vote against the proposed TIF package, with 4th District Councilor Tara Swenson absent Monday night. ADVERTISEMENT more by peter passi Local Don Ness sees nonprofit leadership role as 'dream job' At 52, the former Duluth mayor says he's satisfied to serve his community in a different way. May 20 &#183; By Peter Passi Local Court upholds ruling against Spirit Mountain in coaster injury lawsuit May 4 &#183; By Peter Passi Local St. Louis County replants forest in fire’s wake May 2 &#183; By Peter Passi Subscribers Only Local Opponents again sue Hermantown over proposed data center Apr 29 &#183; By Peter Passi Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 1d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 1d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.