Wendy Durrwachter meet and greet with in Lester park - X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Wendy Durrwachter meet and greet with in Lester park William Lien WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5188592&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Wendy Durrwachter, the DFL endorsed candidate for Duluth District 1, held a meet and greet in Lester park. She says her experience as a single mother gave her confidence to tackle the issues people in Duluth are currently dealing with. "I've been hearing a lot about childcare services, it's really hard to find child care and their are very long waiting lists," Durrwachter said. "I've also heard a lot about lacking housing of all price ranges. A lot of concerns about the opioid crisis in Duluth in general, as well as the roundabouts in this area is a very big issue." Durrwachter said that she's really proud of her campaign team, and is looking forward to meeting more people in her district. "We're still bringing in endorsements," Durrwachter said. "We have our signs and our literature to hand out thanks to our great donors. And it's been so fun to knock on people's doors and get to know their concerns for the community and and their choice for their communities." Durrwachter also said the reason why she is running for the position is, because of her kids that she raised as a single mother. "I want to make sure that this a city that they're proud to come back to," Durrwachter said. "That they're able to come back to with family wages, great benefits packages and just resources for them to make a life." Durrwachter said if people didn't get a chance to come down to see her at Lester Park , there is a House Party and Fundraiser, August 17th on Rose St. from 5:00pm-6:30pm. For more information about the candidates running in Duluth's District 1 election you can look here . If you want to read more about the Duluth primary election you can read more here . On Saturday, Diuluth District 1 candidate Wendy Durrwachter's meet and greet was in Lester park, where kids could enjoy a fun afternoon with bubbles and a bounce house, and parents could talk more about Durrwachter. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow