Durrwachter wins close race for eastern Duluth council seat - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Durrwachter wins close race for eastern Duluth council seat The single mother, composer and waitress defeated a local architect in an election that did not include the 1st District incumbent. Wendy Durrwachter By Tom Olsen November 07, 2023 at 11:31 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — A wide-open election resulted in a close race for the City Council seat covering Duluth's easternmost neighborhoods. Wendy Durrwachter narrowly prevailed over Tim Meyer by a 52.52% to 46.84% margin, according to complete but unofficial tallies from the seven precincts in the 1st District. ADVERTISEMENT Incumbent Gary Anderson opted against seeking a third term representing the Lakeside, Lester Park, Woodland and Hunters Park neighborhoods. "I'm very honored for the support of Duluth, and I'm ready to get to work," Durrwachter told the News Tribune. "For the last month, I have door-knocked every day. I also have a really smart campaign team, and we worked very hard to get a lot of endorsements." Durrwachter, 45, is a single mother, musical composer and waitress, who said she moved to Duluth 15 years ago because she was allured by its outdoor spaces. The first-time candidate said she has experienced housing discrimination as a renter with two children, and she has often had to work two or three jobs while turning down others that wouldn't pay enough to cover child care expenses. READ MORE ABOUT THE ELECTION Painful decisions ahead for Minnesota school districts after failed levies Nov 21, 2023 Voter turnout rebounds in Duluth's latest election Nov 14, 2023 Roundup: Breaking down a busy week of Minnesota politics Nov 10, 2023 Judge dismisses complaint of campaign violation in Duluth mayoral race Nov 9, 2023 Durrwachter campaigned on solving the child care crisis, suggesting incentives for businesses to provide services, and said she would fight to guarantee quality housing opportunities for all income levels. A volunteer and advocate for several organizations, TakeAction Minnesota and Duluth for Clean Water, she also called for a lessening of the property-tax burden and vocally advocated for "strong unions," with livable wages and health care benefits. Meyer, 61, has long owned and operated a downtown architectural firm and has been involved in many community roles, serving on at least eight local and state commissions related to architecture, planning and redevelopment, historic preservation and public art. ADVERTISEMENT He primarily campaigned on a platform of limited government, balanced budgets and an expansion of the local tax base to reduce the city's reliance on state aid. Tim Meyer Meyer indicated he believes core city services should include responsible taxation, street and infrastructure maintenance, public safety funding, affordable housing for all income levels and available child care. He suggested the city should privatize various functions, including Spirit Mountain, the Lake Superior Zoo, Enger and Lester Park golf courses, and water and gas operations. In a race involving two candidates who have never held elected office, Durrwachter acknowledged she had to prove herself to the community — a challenge she said she is looking forward to continuing in a city government that will include a new mayor and several new councilors. "I think this will be a big change," she said. "With change, there always come growing pains. I think people will feel it. Whether it's good or bad, I can't say. But I am looking forward to building relationships on the City Council and with the new mayor and with all of Duluth." Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ELECTION 2023 By Tom Olsen Tom Olsen covers crime and courts and the 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune since 2013. He is a graduate of the University of Minnesota Duluth and a lifelong resident of the city. Readers can contact Olsen at 218-723-5333 or tolsen@duluthnews.com. Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 1d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 1d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.