No short-term rental licenses for single-family homes, Duluth council decides - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture No short-term rental licenses for single-family homes, Duluth council decides Alex Haddon WDIO --> No short-term rental licenses for single-family homes, Duluth council decides Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team On Monday, the Duluth City Council passed two pieces of legislation related to its housing problem: regulating short-term rentals and approving an apartment complex near Lake Superior College. Jessica Boehland is a board member of Minnesota Point 50, a group that works to protect the community and ecosystem of the Duluth sandbar. She told the council at Monday night's meeting that her group had conducted a survey among 80 Park Point residents about short-term rentals like Airbnbs. "We heard from our neighbors that vacation rentals do benefit the community, but that they also pose a number of challenges," she said. "We heard concern that vacation rentals occupy housing that would otherwise be available for long-term rentals and owner-occupied housing." A temporary moratorium on new short-term rental licenses is ending soon. The council passed a new policy that prevents Duluth from issuing new short-term rental licenses for entire single-family homes, but residents can still rent out rooms. Multiple counselors pointed out the new policy isn't perfect, but they passed it with the intention of workshopping it over time as they collect more data. "I do think there's holes in this," Council President Lynn Nephew said about the policy, although she thanked city staff for their hard work putting the policy together. Councilmembers agreed that it's not the people with properly licensed Airbnbs that are up to code that are the problem, its the uncounted hundreds of unlicensed ones. Councilmember Arik Forsman said he appreciated the mechanisms the policy created to "finally crack down" on some of the bad actors. "My one lingering concern with the proposal being put in front of us, which I agree is a strong improvement from today's state, is I have a concern around the folks who did play by the rules, who are currently licensed," he said, adding the city would work with people to re-license if their rentals didn't live up to the strict standards of the Minnesota Department of Health. Seth Oliver, a Duluth resident, pointed out to the council that some of those short-term rental owners are from out of town, and that it's difficult to enforce people only renting out the homes they currently live in. "I could just say, &#8216;Hey, this is owner occupied, I'm just renting out my bedroom,'" he said. "There's no mechanism, there's no way that you can check that. So, I think if you guys allow that to continue it will be bad for the city. It's going to degrade these traditional neighborhoods." And after nearly a decade of work, the city approved the development of an apartment complex for students and workers near Lake Superior College. The five-story building will have 148 units, with 30 set aside for affordable housing. David Kline, Vice President of Advancement and External Relations at Lake Superior College, said enrollment has been a challenge, and the fact that students can't find anywhere to live hasn't helped. The building is in a TIF, or tax increment financing district, which has fixed property taxes that go into a special fund that help cover some of the costs of the development. TIF districts require public hearings before they can be approved, as well as lots of additional paperwork. Some councilmembers worried the public hadn't been given adequate information they needed to review the project, like the math behind the specific TIF structure. "We did have a public hearing tonight, but the public does not have all the information in front of them," Councilmember Wendy Durrwachter said. "So, in my opinion, that is a faulty public hearing." The resolution passed eight to one, after multiple councilmembers raised concerns about rapidly rising construction costs, and a desire to get the complex built quickly. For Related Stories: Alex Haddon Duluth Duluth City Council Lake Superior College --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow