Back to music: Wendy Durrwachter will showcase her compositions - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Lifestyle Arts and Entertainment Back to music: Wendy Durrwachter will showcase her compositions In legal circles, "Ultra Vires" is a term that means "beyond the powers." The Latin term is also the title of a four-movement violin concerto written by an emerging local composer. Wendy Durrwachter By Christa Lawler January 18, 2018 at 4:00 AM Listen Share Share this article In legal circles, "Ultra Vires" is a term that means "beyond the powers." The Latin term is also the title of a four-movement violin concerto written by an emerging local composer. Wendy Durrwachter will be premiering the piece - along with others - during a showcase concert at 7:30 p.m. today at Sacred Heart Music Center. Tickets are $12 in advance at eventbrite.com, $16 at the door. ADVERTISEMENT Featured soloists include Erin Aldridge, whom she had in mind when she wrote "Ultra Vires," she said, and Adam Sippola and William Bastian, who will sing text by Louis Jenkins and William Butler Yeats, respectively. There is also a duet for bass and cello performed by Vince Osborn and Edward Willett. Durrwachter studied music at the University of Minnesota, but after college shifted her focus to raising children and restaurant management. She's recently re-committed to making music, she said. "It's a passion that has haunted me for years," she said. "I've been doing it on the side. Now I'm trying to do it full time." Durrwachter said she is inspired by things she sees and feels, experiences and memories. She describes her style as contemplative and said she gravitates toward virtuosity - which is how she ended up writing "Ultra Vires." She studied Aldridge's recordings of Eugene Ysaye and watched her perform live. "I love not only her skill, but her style," she said. "She almost plays her instrument like she's a rock star." Durrwachter described the first movement as mysterious and violent, the second as serene and nostalgic. The third movement is a minuet and the fourth is impetuous, she said. Durrwachter grew up in Green Bay and began studying piano when she was 3 years old. She said she became disenchanted with classical music while studying it in college. And afterward, she feared that if she got back into it she would become to obsessive. ADVERTISEMENT She got serious about it again about five years ago. Durrwachter wrote pieces that are meditations on Lake Superior and has spent time recently considering the link between art and landscape. Her momentum is building. Durrwachter said it feels good to be writing music again. "I've described it as feeling like you have birds fluttering around your head," she said. "When you write, you release them." Share Share this article Tags Tags MUSIC By Christa Lawler Christa Lawler is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article What To Read Next Arts and Entertainment Tricks and treats: What to do this spooky season 2d ago &#183; By Delia Rose Sauer Subscribers Only Arts and Entertainment New Duluth Playhouse executive director prepares for new season 2d ago &#183; By Delia Rose Sauer Subscribers Only Arts and Entertainment DECC haunted ship to tame the terror with a not-so-haunted tour 3d ago &#183; By Delia Rose Sauer ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 1d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 1d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.