Mayoral candidate Emily Larson concedes to Roger Reinert - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayoral candidate Emily Larson concedes to Roger Reinert Nyah Adams WDIO --> Mayor Emily Larson discusses next steps after 2023 election Mayor Emily Larson lost the 2023 election to Roger Reinert and now hopes for a smooth transition into the next administration. Emily Larson's run as Mayor has officially come to an end with the outcome she was not hoping for. During her watch party at Bent Paddle, Larson reflecting on her last two terms as mayor. After 8 years as Duluth's mayor, Emily Larson gave words of encouragement and her hopes for the future of Duluth during her concession speech. Reflecting on her time, she says "we made difficult decisions and I'd make them again. We put people at the center of how and we never lost sight of the why." Emily Larson says though the challenges she faced throughout her two terms were tough that they were necessary for Duluth's growth. "We committed to supporting economic growth and development and eight years later we're in our fourth record year of business investment and Duluth has not ever been stronger economically. We committed to fixing Duluth's decaying infrastructure by 850%," said Larson. Full: Emily Larson concession speech Duluth Mayor Emily Larson gave her concession speech at the watch party at Bent Paddle, Larson reflecting on her last two terms as mayor. She added that through past work, the city's municipal greenhouse gas emissions by 32%. "We're a national leader now and that feels really good." Larson says "this campaign is over and that's okay. I have yet to talk to Roger but I will sincerely say that I wish him well. This is a very difficult job and although we competed fiercely we want him to succeed because that's important for all of us." Though the race is over, Larson spoke to City of Duluth staff saying "we expect everything and you give more." As Duluth's first female mayor, she added how special it has been for her to hold this title. "I may have been the first but I sure will not be the last," said Larson. Larson spent the last few minutes of her speech talking directly to women and girls. "One of the things I have enjoyed most about being mayor is having the young girls visit me in my office. Seeing them look over downtown from the mayor's window and imagining that they too could lead the city and the world. As I have said time and time again to these incredible girls, your time to lead is now and it will always be now." For Related Stories: Duluth Elections Emily Larson --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed