Mayor Reinert talks gearing up for Grandma&#039;s Marathon - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Reinert talks gearing up for Grandma's Marathon By WDIO --> Mayor Reinert talks gearing up for Grandma's Marathon Grandma's Marathon is expecting to break attendance records this year, and Mayor Reinert is looking to get Duluth ready to host. For the second year in a row Grandma's marathon is expecting its biggest race weekend yet. The marathon's organizers and city officials don't take this lightly. They're focused on making the weekend a positive experience for both visitors and locals. We spoke with Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert on the impact Grandma's marathon has on Duluth. "I take every opportunity I can to remind Duluthians that we are the smallest community to host a top 10 marathon in the country," said Mayor Reinert. "So everywhere else that this happens, it's millions of people. You can close 13 or 26 miles of street and really not have much of an impact in the community. That is not the case in Duluth, right? We all know that Grandma's Marathon is happening, not just that day but that week, because we see the change in the community." Reinert says the challenge for him is to embrace that. Grandma's marathon and other large events like, the air show, Bentleyville, and tall ships, all have a major economic impact. An independent study conducted by the university of Minnesota extensions shows that 90 percent of the runners in grandma's are from out of town. On average, each participant travels with 2 or 3 people. Every person spent $176 dollars per a day. The largest amounts are spent on lodging, dining, and transportation, which a huge lift for the tourism industry. Making it happen takes a lot of collaboration with the city and the community. "It makes a difference, Right? You can go out and you can watch a different sporting event and not necessarily be part of what's happening. Grandma's Marathon is completely different," said Zach Schneider the marketing and public relations director for Grandma's Marathon. "You are part of the success of that event and when it's over you can look back on your part as a somewhat small, some would say, but very vital part of the event. Handing people water is a vital part of Grandma's Marathon. I think that when you get there and you experience it for the first time, and thousands of people run by you and say thank you, you'll start to realize how much it means." There are still opportunities to volunteer with grandma's marathon. You can learn more about the marathon and check out volunteer opportunities here. Grandma's Marathon kicks off June 21st. WDIO will be televising the race so you can also watch from the comfort of your own home. For Related Stories: Duluth Grandma's Marathon Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed