Roger Reinert officially files in race for Duluth Mayor - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Roger Reinert officially files in race for Duluth Mayor By WDIO --> Mayoral candidate Roger Reinert officially filed today as a candidate for Mayor of Duluth. “I’m excited to be the very first candidate to file for any office today. That’s representative of my style”, said Reinert. “I do the things I say I’m going to do, and I get out there and get after it.” Tuesday was the first day to file for office. Local elections will be held this fall for Mayor of Duluth, and six open Duluth City Council seats. Candidates file with the Duluth City Clerk. Candidates must be at least 21, eligible to vote in Minnesota, have lived in the city or district for at least 30 days, and pay the $20 filing fee. Reinert encouraged all those interested in running to file. “Don’t let anyone else tell you whether you’re a ‘viable’ candidate or not. If you feel a call to run &#8211; jump in! We need to encourage more participation in this community discussion, and in public service. That’s good for democracy, and good for Duluth.” City of Duluth elections are non-partisan. The top two vote-getters in the Mayoral Primary will move on to the General Election. The General Election is November 7th, and a Primary &#8211; if needed &#8211; will be held on August 8th. The filing period closes on May 30th at 5pm. For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed