Investigator to examine role of Reinert's girlfriend in city business - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Investigator to examine role of Reinert's girlfriend in city business The cost of the investigation has been capped at $10,000. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert speaks during the State of the City address April 25. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi October 16, 2024 at 12:59 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — The city will hire a private investigator to look into allegations that Mayor Roger Reinert’s former campaign manager and self-described “significant other” may have exercised undue influence on city staff after his election. City Administrator David Montgomery told the City Council on Monday evening that staff retained the services of Michelle Soldo, of Soldo Consulting Group, in a contract drawn up to not exceed $10,000 in cost. ADVERTISEMENT The examination was prompted by the recent disclosure of emails between Amber Gurske and city staff. Those communications showed her stepping in to occasionally direct staff, shape social media content and press releases, and coordinate the mayor’s activities after he took office. Montgomery said the city attorney’s office completed an internal investigation. Montgomery went on to express his “complete confidence in the impartiality” of the city attorney’s review of the case. also read Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% 5d ago Duluth OKs tax subsidies for housing project near LSC Sep 17 Duluth bars new vacation rentals from single-family homes Sep 14 “That being said, in an effort to be completely transparent, I directed the city attorney’s office to engage an independent attorney to conduct an outside investigation," Montgomery said. All documents collected for the city’s review will be delivered to Soldo this week. "Her investigation is completely independent," Montgomery said. "And she has full authority to conduct any additional investigation if she feels it is appropriate.” He said a final report will be presented when Soldo completes her work. Documentation as to the findings of the initial internal review has not yet been made public. ADVERTISEMENT A website for Soldo Consulting P.C., located in the Twin Cities metro area, says the firm represents governing boards and councils and consults with human resources and labor relations personnel, managers and supervisors on matters related to compliance with policy, Open Meeting Law, Government Data Practices Act requirements, governmental regulations and other concerns, including internal harassment. Councilor Wendy Durrwachter asked how Soldo was selected. “Her firm is involved in these types of municipal investigations," Montgomery said. "They are known to be competent and involved in these sorts of investigations.” He also noted that the city has used the same firm “on prior occasions for other investigations and found their work to be very excellent.” Montgomery said he was “very confident” Soldo would do a complete and thorough investigation. Business ALSO READ: Small businesses brace for Minnesota Paid Leave to kick in During an informational session in Duluth, employers learned about the changes effective Jan. 1, 2026. Oct 8, 2024 &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Reinert said Gurske provided her assistance on a volunteer basis and did not receive any compensation for her services. Some authorities have questioned whether those activities crossed ethical, if not legal, boundaries. David Schultz, a political science and legal studies professor at Hamline University, told the News Tribune: “It comes down to accountability, tax dollars and transparency.” ADVERTISEMENT Reinert defeated incumbent Mayor Emily Larson in November. At age 54, he is a former city councilor who went on to serve in the Minnesota House and Senate. Reinert, an attorney, also serves as a commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. more by peter passi Local Don Ness sees nonprofit leadership role as 'dream job' At 52, the former Duluth mayor says he's satisfied to serve his community in a different way. May 20 &#183; By Peter Passi Local Court upholds ruling against Spirit Mountain in coaster injury lawsuit May 4 &#183; By Peter Passi Local St. Louis County replants forest in fire’s wake May 2 &#183; By Peter Passi Subscribers Only Local Opponents again sue Hermantown over proposed data center Apr 29 &#183; By Peter Passi Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ROGER REINERT By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 4h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.