Mayor's View: Civic Center encampment presented unique challenges - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Columns Mayor's View: Civic Center encampment presented unique challenges From the column: "We do streets, utilities, public safety, parks, and libraries. Complex social issues like opioid use, mental health, and affordable housing require a 'whole of community' effort." Workers haul away the remnants of a homeless encampment at Priley Circle in Duluth on Wednesday, Aug. 7, 2024. (Peter Passi/Duluth Media Group) By Roger Reinert August 23, 2024 at 9:38 AM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Priley Circle has now entered our Duluth lexicon in a way Mr. Priley, architect of that public space, would never have expected. And, along the way, it brought back to the forefront a critical issue for our community: How does Duluth as one community best care for and support the unhoused and marginalized in our region? Community attention to Priley Circle began in May when demonstrators set up camp in opposition to the Gaza conflict. Priley green space is divided in ownership between federal space, city space, and county space. Initially, demonstrators set up on the federally owned parcel, but they moved to city space when told federal regulations prohibited them from being on that parcel.The situation rapidly evolved, and we quickly discovered Duluth did not have rules or policies governing camping in the Priley green space. ADVERTISEMENT What began as a peaceful protest disintegrated over the summer into a serious public health and safety crisis. From mid-May to July 30, we had 158 calls for service to the Priley Circle camp. May 1 to July 1 saw 28 calls. Another 130 came in the month of July alone. Those July calls included serious reports of assault, drug use, public urination and defecation, overdose, arson, and explosives. The city of Duluth had a responsibility to balance multiple interests in how people use public property: the safety of our staff and of those in adjacent buildings, the safety of the public visiting public space and government buildings, and the safety of the unhoused in the encampment. Evident health and safety concerns led to the city’s Life Safety Team, with support from the Duluth Police Department, dispersing the encampment on Aug. 7. The procedures our team followed were consistent with past encampment-enforcement procedures. Notice was posted in multiple locations around Priley Circle informing those in the encampment they had seven days to leave the area and remove their belongings. The Life Safety Team first encouraged voluntary compliance and provided an opportunity for individuals to discard items no longer wanted. Life Safety was then supported by Duluth Police to gain mandatory compliance. This was done in partnership with multiple nonprofit partners and staff dedicated to outreach and engagement. City of Duluth staff did an exceptional job with a challenging task. Kudos to Life Safety, Duluth Police, and the city’s legal, administration, parks, and communications staff members. We are also grateful for the support of St. Louis County and multiple nonprofit partners. Park Maintenance team members deserve a highlight. They quickly began work to repair the gardens, remove graffiti, decontaminate the fountain, and lay grass seed. They oversaw the removal of a sizable amount of rubbish and human and hazardous waste from the camp. This cleanup and restoration has, to date, cost taxpayers around $8,000, with final costs coming in spring when new plantings are re-established. A small plaque tells us Priley Fountain and Priley Circle are dedicated to Joseph Priley. He was a city councilor and county commissioner and is remembered for planting the flowers and shrubs in the Civic Center. Prior to that, it was concrete and grass. It’s a public space to gather, celebrate, announce, demonstrate, and, yes, protest — subject to permit rules similar to those in place inside City Hall. This effort was a challenging leadership task. I appreciated those who made a point to share with me your support, and I respect those who shared frustration or disappointment. But these past few weeks and months have also forced back to the forefront of our Duluth conversation how best to support marginalized and unhoused people in our community. ADVERTISEMENT Not every issue in Duluth is solely, or even primarily, a city of Duluth issue. We do streets, utilities, public safety, parks, and libraries. Complex social issues like opioid use, mental health, and affordable housing require a “whole of community” effort. Yet, the city remains at the table. In the near future, we will announce another almost $2 million for affordable housing and unhoused solutions. Tangible steps forward continue to demonstrate the city of Duluth’s commitment to partnering with the service professionals and nonprofits doing the critical work of outreach, engagement, and support in our community and region. Roger Reinert is mayor of Duluth. He wrote this exclusively for the News Tribune. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert READ MORE IN OPINION Editorial cartoon for Monday, Oct. 5, 2026 3h ago Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 23h ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 23h ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags LOCAL VIEW DULUTH HOMELESSNESS DULUTH CIVIC CENTER Listen to this article What To Read Next Columns Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 2d ago &#183; By Richard E. Pierce Columns Candidate's View: Experience ensures northern voices will be heard in St. Paul 2d ago &#183; By Aaron Kania Columns Finding Faith: Experience the highs along with the lows 3d ago &#183; By Devlyn Brooks ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.