The Twin Ports community talks public transit at The Bus is Us - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture The Twin Ports community talks public transit at The Bus is Us By WDIO --> Community members gathered at Zeitgeist to discuss the impact of public transportation on Tuesday, February 3rd ahead of Public Transit Equity Day or Rosa Park's birthday on February 4th. Zeitgeist and the Duluth Transit Authority (DTA) hosted a live storytelling event called "The Bus Is Us: Public Transportation Equity Day Storytelling Event" where people shared how public transit has affected their lives. "The bus gives people Independence. I get single parents taking their child to daycare that jump back on my bus so they can get to work," Angela Ellis a DTA bus driver said. Superior Mayor Jim Paine attended but left early to join the Superior City Council meeting, where a possible public transportation expansion was on the agenda. RELATED STORY: Superior considers resolution supporting expanded DTA transit service &#8211; WDIO.com "From pedestrian issues, walkability issues, community design, neighborhood design and transit, you know that I feel pretty strongly about these things. I have made it a centerpiece of the public policy work that I have tried to do as mayor of Superior," Mayor Paine said. "I'm doing that work tonight. At the Superior City Council meeting we are proposing and hopefully passing an actual major expansion of bus services in the city of Superior," Paine said. Both Superior Mayor Jim Paine and Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert proclaimed tomorrow as Public Transit Equity Day in both Duluth and Superior. For Related Stories: Duluth Mayor Jim Paine Superior Zeitgeist --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed