Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert gears up to run his first full Grandma&#039;s Marathon - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert gears up to run his first full Grandma's Marathon By WDIO --> Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert gears up to run his first full Grandma's Marathon Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert is getting ready to run his first full Grandma's Marathon to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the iconic Duluth race. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert is getting ready to run his first full Grandma's Marathon to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the iconic Duluth race. Mayor Reinert shared that while this is his first full marathon, he has participated in other Grandma's Marathon events before. "I have never done the full. This will be my first real full. I've done the half more times than I can count. I've done the 5K too. I've even done the 5K and the half back-to-back a couple times," Mayor Reinert said. Mayor Reinert also told us that he hopes the community will come together to be good hosts for Grandma's 50th annual marathon. "To my fellow Duluthians, this is the time for us to shine for Grandma's 50th Marathon. Let's be great hosts, a little extra patience, a little extra kindness, "said Mayor Reinert said. "Give directions to the person who doesn't know where they're going. Give a little space to the person who makes the wrong turn. This is the chance for us to send folks home, having been really great hosts." For Related Stories: Duluth Grandma's Marathon Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed