Duluth considers changing zoning rules in hopes of boosting housing - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth considers changing zoning rules in hopes of boosting housing Residential setbacks and minimum lot widths would go down, while height maximums would go up. And more types of housing would be allowed in residential districts. A construction worker nails a spacer on roof trusses at the Thunderbird-Wren halfway house being built in Morgan Park in 2019. Steve Kuchera / Duluth Media Group file photo By Jimmy Lovrien June 15, 2026 at 8:07 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — A batch of proposed changes to the city’s zoning regulations could help boost the construction of housing, according to city staff. The Duluth City Council will consider the modifications, which city officials said are designed to make planning faster and easier for both them and developers, later this month. The changes, which the council directed staff to come up with last year, could also make it easier to build multi-family housing throughout the city and build housing on Duluth’s sometimes awkward and small parcels, staff said. ADVERTISEMENT Some of the changes to the Duluth Unified Development Chapter include: Allowing fourplexes in areas zoned “Residential-Traditional” Reducing minimum lot widths and setback requirements in residential districts Increasing building height maximums Simplifying building design standards Allowing other types of housing that would currently require special-use permits in more districts Jenn Moses, manager of planning and community development for the City of Duluth, told the city council at last week’s committee of the whole meeting that the hope is to boost housing density. Jimmy Lovrien / Duluth Media Group “We know from our comprehensive plan, we know from our housing studies that we want different types of housing than we have now, that’s what the market’s demanding, that’s what we need in our community,” Moses said. The zoning changes come as Duluth’s housing needs grow and its long-stagnant population increases. A study commissioned by the city last year found that nearly 9,000 new housing units would be needed by 2035. Mayor Roger Reinert told the News Tribune on Monday that he supports the ordinance and said the city needs additional housing of all types. “We need all the kinds, in all the places,” Reinert said. “So the (Unified Development Chapter) changes are meant to make it easier and faster to build all sorts of housing — single family, duplex, triplex, higher density.” ADVERTISEMENT He added that he hopes it helps buck the mantra that it’s hard to get anything done in Duluth. Jimmy Lovrien / Duluth Media Group “We can’t have that reputation when we desperately need more,” Reinert said. Moses said simplifying the requirements would help with that. “The fact that the regulations are very detailed and prescriptive are a perceived barrier, even if I could see how somebody would get through those regulations,” Moses said. “If it feels daunting to people, they don’t want to wade through it.” But Councilor Roz Randorf, who represents Duluth’s 3rd District, pushed back on the lack of a requirement that would ensure housing makes up a percentage of a building if it’s going to be built to a certain height. Local ALSO READ: After decades, Duluth population estimate is rising But it's straining an already tight housing market. Sep 25, 2025 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien “That seems really strange and odd,” Randorf said at last week’s meeting. Ben Van Tassel, the city’s director of planning and economic development, responded that he expects most new tall buildings in downtown would be residential anyway, citing the high rate of commercial vacancy. He added that any sort of requirement that housing make up a certain percentage of a building could deter housing developers. ADVERTISEMENT “Wherever we set that, we will see creative projects we’d like to support that might find trouble with that,” Van Tassel said. The ordinance was set for a first reading Monday night, but the council tabled consideration of three last-minute amendments to language on a proposed point system to score the sustainability of buildings. They will instead be considered at the June 29 meeting after councilors can ask questions about the amendments during the June 25 agenda session. Speakers during the public comment period Monday, including business and nonprofit leaders, were largely supportive of the zoning rule changes, arguing they would help add housing to the region. But Paula Tsufis told the council that the public input process was limited and rushed, despite the planning department having a year to work on the changes. Read more 1 in 4 Duluth single-family homes was bought with cash last year Report shows Duluth housing in high demand, short supply DFL leadership says ‘no’ to housing bill that would revoke city zoning controls “Duluth needs more housing to thrive in the future,” Tsufis said. “I believe if properly informed about these changes, that the public could collaboratively come to sound solutions and strategies to move forward with the city through these modifications.” Alexandra Panovich told the council they should work quickly and transparently to address the housing shortage and alleviate homelessness in Duluth. “When it comes to housing,” Panovich said, “do whatever you need to do to make it easier to build housing here.” ADVERTISEMENT About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CONSTRUCTION HOUSING DULUTH CITY COUNCIL DOWNTOWN DULUTH DEVELOPMENT GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 4h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.