Duluth negotiating a partnership with Animal Allies Humane Society - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth negotiating a partnership with Animal Allies Humane Society By WDIO --> (WDIO) The City of Duluth is in talks with Animal Allies Humane Society about a pilot partnership that would shift animal care responsibilities to the organization. Since early 2025, Duluth city leaders and Animal Allies have discussed a fee-for-service agreement, similar to those Animal Allies already has with other area municipalities and St. Louis County. Both sides hope the pilot will lead to a long-term contract. “Currently, Saint Louis County, Hermantown, Proctor and Rice Lake already contract with Animal Allies to care for the dogs and cats that come into their possession,” Animal Allies Executive Director Julie Waltenburg said in a statement. “It’s a service that benefits those dogs and cats because they receive outstanding care in our facility and our organization has the built-in volunteer base and foster network necessary to ensure the best quality of life for these animals.” Duluth City Administrator Karla Culhane said the pilot partnership would be a positive step for the city. “Being able to step away from the animal care business and allow Animal Allies to provide that service would be beneficial and sustainable for both the animals and the City,” Culhane said. “The City can continue to fulfill its statutory obligation of providing animal control within City limits, while Animal Allies provides the subsequent animal care. Anyone familiar with their organization knows they do it better than anyone else.” Nicole Facciotto, the Humane Education Manager at Animal Allies issued a statement to WDIO on Tuesday regarding concerns from some Animal Allies staff members: Yesterday evening a group on Animal Allies staff attended the City Council meeting to express concerns over a potential contract that would make the humane society responsible for housing all of Duluth’s stray animals. They went to express their personal concerns, not act as representatives for Animal Allies as a whole. Their concerns centered around the lack of space currently available at Animal Allies, and funding to add on more staff in order to make a potential merger successful. Executive leadership from both sides are still in the talking stages, so staff are currently unaware of what the next steps will be. New information will be shared as it becomes available. Duluth Police Chief Mike Ceynowa said the potential contract would let the department focus more on animal control issues. “Historically, animal care needs often took precedence because they directly impact quality of life for the animals. With this potential contract with Animal Allies, the Duluth Police Department would be able to focus more on the control side of animals, while ensuring the care is being taken care of by an agency that’s more equipped for it,” Ceynowa said. Mayor Roger Reinert said the partnership would let each group focus on its strengths. “Animal Allies has the facilities, expertise, volunteers and foster network they have built to care for animals. As a pet owner someone who has also adopted from Animal Allies, I know firsthand the quality of care they provide,” Reinert said. “It will be a partnership that allows each organization to focus on what they do best: the City on animal control and Animal Allies on animal care. I think that is a better model for both the animals and the taxpayers.” Animal Allies board president John Strange said the partnership would expand the group’s services. “This is a unique opportunity for Animal Allies to expand its facilities and services to the community and region,” Strange said. “A partnership with the City of Duluth allows us to serve more animals, better support the people who care for those animals and gives us the space and resources to provide the compassionate care our community expects.” According to city officials, both sides are discussing the possibilities of a service agreement with more details to be released in the coming weeks. For Related Stories: Animal Allies Duluth Duluth Police Department --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed