Duluth mayor talks about options as VRBO moratorium comes to an end - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth mayor talks about options as VRBO moratorium comes to an end William Lien WDIO --> As moratorium on VRBOs ends, Duluth weighs options Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Duluth's year-long moratorium on creating new short-term rental licenses is ending. Mayor Roger Reinert said, the city is looking at options for how they can continue to keep homes available to full-time residents. The moratorium was started to help mitigate Duluth's housing crisis, Reinert said. He added that while it's good that people vacation here, it can't come at the expense of single-family homes, "Our housing stock isn't keeping up. So again, in my rationale, step number one, stop losing it and having homes turned into essentially small businesses," Mayor Reinert said. "And of course we've really seen that impact some neighborhoods. We want to have a mix of homes, long-term rentals, even some short-term rentals, but you can't have that wholesale conversion of a neighborhood to essentially a business purpose." One suggestion would remove the city's current cap on short-term rentals and instead limit them based on location and how they're allowed. New developments could include short-term rentals, but only up to 10 percent of units. "The classic room share, you're renting a bedroom in your home to somebody else, that doesn't get touched," Mayor Reinert said. "If you have a license, you can continue to have that license as long as you comply with the new updated regulations. It allows continued vacation rental units in the city, but really does prioritize and protect single family homes as a primary opportunity for people who are looking to call Duluth home." The Duluth City Council will discuss the proposed changes over the next couple of months before the moratorium expires in October. For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed