Property tax levy proposed for Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Property tax levy proposed for Duluth By WDIO --> Property tax levy proposed for Duluth Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert is proposing an inflation-only property tax levy of 2.7 percent. City Council has until the end of September to decide what the levy will be for taxpayers in 2026. On Thursday, Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert will present his tax levy proposal to the City Council. His proposal is for an inflation-only property tax levy of 2.7%. New growth was taken into account by Reinert in his proposal. "Now, in the city of Duluth, for the city portion, not the county, not the school district, the city portion would actually total 4.1 because we're also gonna capture 1.4% of new growth in our local tax fees. When we have new growth, that's additional revenue that does not increase anyone's taxes. Now, if we don't capture it, it does mean everybody's taxes actually go down," explained Reinert. The city had taken a pause last year and had a zero percent tax levy, but Reinert believes a levy is needed to help with the sizable deficit in 2026 and 2027. "With this proposal, I think we do two things. We capture the new growth, we want to continue to build our tax base, so that's a good thing. And then with an inflation of only 2.7%, we account for the inflation that's in the economy that everyone else has experienced," said Reinert. "We're also being really mindful of what we ask for from taxpayers, both our residents and businesses." The 2.7% increase proposed by Reinert is based on the Consumer Price Index, the general measure of inflation in the economy for the last 12 months. Other strategies the Mayor is working on to address the $7.3 million deficit in the city budget are to manage the current resources and figure out if any of the 55 open positions can be eliminated. Additionally, he wants to reduce overtime in the Duluth Fire Department. "That's been steadily increasing year after year, primarily driven by medical calls, and if we did nothing, it would be a $2 million line item in next year's budget, which is about 6 percentage points on the levy," explained Reinert. "We're proposing to add three firefighters to a float pool to help fill when firefighters are out. That should help bring our overtime down. That's a good financial savings. But we're also seeing really wear and tear on our firefighters from mandatory overtime, and so I know it's something that they're looking for us to do as well." The Duluth City Council will have until the end of September to decide on a maximum property tax levy for 2026. They will then go over the city's budget in November and have until the end of December to approve the budget for the next fiscal year. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Roger Reinert Taxes --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed