Mayor Reinert says Duluth is a "safe" city following a string of violent incidents - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Reinert says Duluth is a "safe" city following a string of violent incidents By WDIO --> Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert and Duluth Police Department Deputy Chief Ryan Morris held a joint press conference on Wednesday following a string of violent incidents in the city. The most recent incident happened Wednesday morning after a man barricaded himself in a building after threatening two movers. That incident ended with the man peacefully surrendering. RELATED: Man taken into custody after standoff at West 1st Street in Duluth RELATED: 18-year-old charged in Canal Park knife attack Deputy Chief Morris also provided updates on the other recent incidents in city saying that in all cases, besides the knife attack near the Slip Bridge on July 9, that the suspects and victims were known to each other. He also stated that the July 3 attack at near East Harbor Highlands and the July 6 shooting in Canal Park, but couldn't elaborate further at this time. Mayor Reinert said that there have been five "public safety incidents" in the city in the last two weeks, but that statistics show Duluth is still a safe city. "The data tells us that Duluth remains a safe community," said Reinert. "Several incidents close together doesn't define who we are or change the overall trajectory of public safety in our city which has consistently been improving." Reinert continued to say that, regardless of the data, every victim matters and that there is still work to do. "For the people directly affected, these aren't statistics," he continued. "They're sometimes life changing events." Reinert and Morris emphasized that the public can also play a roll in public safety and if someone sees something, they shouldn't interject. They should call 9-11. PREVIOUS REPORTING: Night at Duluth party ends with teen injured, masked suspects escape &#8211; WDIO.com Two injured in shooting incident in Duluth, investigation ongoing &#8211; WDIO.com 19-year-old suspect in Canal Park shooting remains at-large &#8211; WDIO.com 18-year-old arrested for knife attack in Canal Park &#8211; WDIO.com For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth Police Department Northern Minnesota Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed