Duluth prepares to clear Civic Center encampment - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth prepares to clear Civic Center encampment City staff posted notices requiring tents to be removed from Priley Circle within seven days. An encampment on Priley Circle in Duluth on Tuesday morning. Macklin Caruso / Duluth Media Group By Macklin Caruso and Peter Passi July 30, 2024 at 3:00 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — City administration wasted little time in seeking to enforce restrictions against unauthorized camping on municipal property after councilors clarified local policies for dealing with homeless encampments late Monday night. Early the following morning, city staff posted notices at Priley Circle around what had started months ago on the City Hall lawn as a pro-Palestine encampment. The collection of tents has since evolved and mushroomed into a refuge for people experiencing homelessness as well. ADVERTISEMENT read more Duluth homelessness policies stir debate Jul 26, 2024 Painter tells story of Duluth's pro-Palestine encampment Jul 15, 2024 Signs alerted Priley Circle occupants that they would have seven days to vacate the premises. After that time, the city will presume any remaining property to be abandoned. While most lingering debris will be treated as trash, city officials said they will work to identify and return any significant documents discovered during the cleanup, such as stray drivers’ licenses or Social Security cards, to their rightful owners. Francois Medion, a homeless advocate residing at the camp, laughed off the notices when he saw city workers posting them Tuesday morning. “Man, we're going to start burning the sticks,” he said, referring to the stakes the notices were attached to. “We have no wood. This is not going to last two hours.” A notice to vacate the encampment in Priley Circle. Macklin Caruso / Duluth Media Group While pro-Palestine protesters created the encampment, Medion said most of the original group had recently vacated the space, leaving a population of truly homeless people in their wake with nowhere else to go. He described the scene as “such a contradiction,” saying, “Nobody wants to be here.” also read Cloquet considers trust fund to provide affordable housing May 12, 2024 Duluth leaders say positive changes underway downtown May 8, 2024 Recovering Iron Range family gets helping hand from United Way Apr 27, 2024 Yet, Medion said encampment residents have no reasonable immediate alternative. ADVERTISEMENT City officials have seen emergency calls to Priley Circle balloon in recent weeks, prompting 138 responses in July alone. There have been two fire calls, including one involving a tent; reports of assault; and intoxication and suspected overdoses, as well as other health emergencies. Sanitation has emerged as another public health concern, prompting the city to finally take action. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert said he still views Priley Circle as an appropriate public space in which people should continue to gather freely to express their political and social views. Keitan Schmitz, 23, of Duluth, spends a rainy afternoon camped out on the lawn of the Civic Center on May 2 to draw attention to the plight of Palestinians who remained under siege in Gaza, after Hamas staged a terrorist attack on Israel. Peter Passi / File / Duluth Media Group “So, it’s definitely a place for free speech, a place for assembly and even for protest,” Reinert said last week. “But the appropriateness of what happens in public spaces that are not designated as parks is what these ordinance changes address. And if the council adopts them, they will be enforced uniformly throughout the community.” Medion considers Priley a refuge of last resort. “This is a nightmare to live here. These people normally like to be in the woods with their stuff, not in a full public thing,” he said. “It's embarrassing. They know it and they want out of here. I mean, if we had a solution they'd be out of here in one minute.” Life at the encampment has been chaotic and has been plagued with overdoses and occasional violence, Medion said. He contends that many of the people now living there suffer from mental health or addiction issues. Furthermore, he said there has been routine harassment of the camp, with some particularly disruptive passersby throwing M-80 firecrackers and shooting plastic guns at the encampment. ADVERTISEMENT Medion suggested city officials have clearly displayed the hand they intend to play following the Tuesday morning postings. “This is a … useless thing that they do just to give them some legitimacy," he said. "There is this where they've been trying with the law with all of that. They want the legitimacy to expel the people and leave them." READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 Medion suggested Reinert visit the encampment to better understand the circumstances of those residing there. He also accused the city of needlessly making life tougher for homeless people staying in Priley Circle when they shut off a faucet that served as the camp's only source of running water. “There is someone in City Hall that's working very hard to make this situation explode,” he said. Michael Evans, who has been residing at the camp for the past month, said he was stunned by the city’s notice to vacate Tuesday morning. Medion urged Evans to stay, telling him they’ll somehow find a solution and a place to stay. Their present condition has not changed, though. ADVERTISEMENT “Still homeless,” Evans said. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS HOMELESSNESS By Macklin Caruso Macklin Caruso is a reporter for the Cloquet Pine Journal. You can reach him at mcaruso@pinejournal.com or 218-461-8278. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Subscribers Only Local Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass 2d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local One hurt, one in custody after stabbing in Beaver Bay 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.