Police Chief says three recent Duluth shootings do not appear to be connected - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Police Chief says three recent Duluth shootings do not appear to be connected By WDIO --> Police Chief says three recent Duluth shootings do not appear to be connected In the wake of three recent shootings currently being investigated by the Duluth Police Department, Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert and Police Chief Mike Ceynowa have released a joint statement saying that the shooting do not appear to be connected. In the wake of three recent shootings currently being investigated by the Duluth Police Department, Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert and Police Chief Mike Ceynowa have released a joint statement saying that the shootings do not appear to be connected. "At this time, there is no evidence to indicate that these three incidents are connected," said Police Chief Mike Ceynowa. "We are seeing commonalities that most of those involved in these incidents are juveniles that make it unlawful for them to possess a firearm. Those involved in these incidents are violent offenders who are choosing gun violence as a means to resolve their differences." “The City of Duluth remains a safe place for those who live, work, and play, and gun violence of any kind is unacceptable in our community,” said Mayor Roger Reinert. “I am asking two things from our community in response. First, if you see something, say something and call 911. Second, if you’re a firearm owner, always secure your firearm. Please lock, store, and secure them away from those who should not have access." RELATED: Two injured in shooting incident in Duluth, investigation ongoing Officers from the Duluth Police Department responded to the report of a shooting in the area of North 9th Avenue East and 7th Street on Friday that resulted in two people being injured. A person of interest was detained in this incident. RELATED: Night at Duluth party ends with teen injured, masked suspects escape Also on Friday, a 17-year-old boy was injured during a confrontation involving firearms at a party near East Harbor Highlands, according to the Duluth Police Department. A suspect fled the scene. RELATED: Duluth Police respond to man with gunshot wound in Canal Park On Monday, officers responded to reports of a man with a gunshot wound on the 400 block of Canal Park Drive. At this time, authorities have stated that there is not a suspect in custody. Kimberly Christine was leading a group of people for the Duluth Ghost Walk Tour late Monday night during the incident. She says when they were walking by the Paulucci Building that's when the gunshots were the biggest and the loudest. "I was shocked to hear how much crime was happening downtown in Duluth. That's why I don't do my tours down there," Christine said. "Canal Park has always seemed to be a safe place but yeah it's kind of scary to think that you know we we are picking up. You hear from people like &#8216;Oh we're going to be a little Chicago now' it's like &#8216;No. I don't think so,'" Christine, and other Duluth residents, says they haven't seen this level of gun violence before in the community. "I'd hate to think that it was just some random shooting, or maybe somebody was caught in the crossfires. We've never come across anything like this," Christine said. "I'm not saying that I see a police presence. But the people in themselves are the policing presence, right?" If you have any information, call the Duluth Police Violent Crimes Unit at 218-730-5050. The Duluth Police said they have viable leads in all cases. For Related Stories: Duluth Police Department Northern Minnesota --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed