Duluth mayor discusses $5.5 million projected deficit - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth mayor discusses $5.5 million projected deficit By WDIO --> Over the next year, Duluth mayor Roger Reinert said city revenue is expected to grow by about 1%, but expenses will rise 5.5%, leading to a projected $5.5 million budget deficit. This is down from last year's $7.3 million deficit, which Reinert said the city successfully reduced without any meaningful changes to city services, but penny pinching gets harder every year. Tax base growth won't come close to covering the inflation, and prices are continuing to rise, especially gas. "With the war in Iran, that's already exceeding budget by about half a million dollars," he said. About half of the city's budget goes to the police and fire departments. Another quarter goes to streets and utilities. "When you're passionate about things like our parks or our libraries or some of those other services, they are always secondary to public safety and public works," Reinert said. There are possible cost-saving solutions, like partnering with nearby communities to improve first responder coverage, Reinert said, but finding ways to grow the taxpayer base, the main source of revenue, is key. The city will determine the maximum preliminary levy by the end of September, with a meeting to discuss that on Sept. 10. The new budget must be adopted by the end of December. "I'm pretty committed to the public that we will be responsible on property taxes," Reinert said. "I know that this is a significant financial burden for many in our communities." Duluth isn't the only local taxing jurisdiction affecting how much property owners pay. "The county takes up over half the property tax levy, the city and the school district are about the same in second position," he said. Reinert said the school district is separate from the city and doesn't have an annual levy increase. If they need more money, they have to ask for referendums, which aren't always successful. One of the city's main goals is for property taxes to be affordable, Reinert said, and he said the city will strive to make levy decision responsibly. For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed