Duluth Mayor launches podcast - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth Mayor launches podcast By WDIO --> Courtesy of City of Duluth Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert launched his podcast, “Welcome to Duluth! A Podcast with Mayor Roger Reinert” on Friday, April 18. The monthly podcast features Reinert sitting down with various people in the Duluth community "who make and do the things that Duluthians most care about". "Mayor Reinert will lift up the voices of individuals who, in the course of their daily lives, work to do things that improve Duluth—people who create local signature events, inspirational people who work in area nonprofit organizations, and City of Duluth staff who do the work to make Duluth an attractive place to live, work, and recreate," said Kelli Latuska, Public Information Officer for the City of Duluth. Duluth's new City Administrator Matthew Staehling is the first episode's guest and each episode is planned to run 30 to 45 minutes. The podcast can be viewed here or listened to here. It is also available on a variety of services that offer podcasts. For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed