Mayor Reinert responds to 3.5% Duluth property tax levy, 2026 budget - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Reinert responds to 3.5% Duluth property tax levy, 2026 budget By WDIO --> Mayor Roger Reinert addressed the Duluth City Council’s approval of the 2026 property tax levy and budget, which resolves a $7.3 million deficit with a 3.5% tax levy. According to the press release, Mayor Reinert said this rate remains “one of the lowest municipal levies in all of Northeastern Minnesota” and follows last year’s 0% levy, the first time in a decade property taxes were held flat. Neighboring cities have higher levies, with Proctor at 7%, Hermantown at 10.3% and Rice Lake at 8.2%. Mayor Reinert initially requested a 2.7% “inflation-only” levy in September, but the City Council increased it to 3.5%. He said, “Though I respect the Council's ultimate authority to increase the levy and spending, it has only made next year's budget deficit more challenging.” Reinert explained that this vote increased the projected 2027 deficit from $5.4 million to $5.8 million. The mayor’s proposed 2026 budget, presented in October, aimed to close the $7.3 million deficit by managing overtime, using earned revenue and one-time funds, and reducing full-time positions. The press release states that city expenses are outpacing revenues by a 4:1 ratio. Mayor Reinert told the council that the City accounts for only 27% of the property tax levy but must work to control future increases. He said, “The average home value in Duluth has increased from $185,000 in 2018 to $295,000 today, while the average property tax bill has grown from just over $2,000 to almost $4,000. For too many Duluthians their property taxes have literally doubled in just eight short years. That is neither affordable nor sustainable.” Mayor Reinert concluded by urging the council, city leadership and the community to make bold decisions in 2026 to strengthen Duluth’s financial position and maintain core services. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Northern Minnesota Roger Reinert Tax --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed