Enger Park Golf Course and Buckingham Creek projects wrap up - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Enger Park Golf Course and Buckingham Creek projects wrap up By WDIO --> Enger Park and Buckingham Creek get an upgrade Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team The city marked the completion of a $6 million upgrade to the Enger Park Golf Course's irrigation system and a $1.3 million restoration of Buckingham Creek. The new irrigation system now covers all 27 holes and the driving range practice area at the course. The Buckingham Creek restoration project improved 3,600 feet of the creek and its tributary flowing through Enger Park Golf Course. The creek serves as a vital refuge for local brook trout and other cold water species. "Today we're celebrating over $7 million in golf course investments that brought the course back to green, lush grass conditions, but also restored a natural creek pathway and made for better fish habitat," said Duluth Parks and Recreation manager Jessica Peterson. "Projects like these really feel like they come along only once in a lifetime. It's been an honor and a privilege to have a seat at the table to work on the projects here at Enger Park Golf Course alongside this project team." Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert was at ribbon cutting celebrating the project's completion. He says the project has an impact on the Duluth community as a whole. "This work began long before I was mayor. But my personal connection is, for most of my time in Duluth, I lived adjacent to a branch of Buckingham Creek. Downstream in the Observation Hill neighborhood, which is what I still call home," said Mayor Reinert. "What happens here literally flowed downhill to a neighborhood that means a lot to me. Then it continues on to impact that big, beautiful body of water, Lake Superior." You can learn more about Enger Park Golf Course here. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed