Local View: Sorry, Mayor Reinert, now not the time for a break - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Columns Local View: Sorry, Mayor Reinert, now not the time for a break From the column: "Reinert said correctly that we can feel overwhelmed by political news. ... (But) we must flood the zone with resistance and civil unrest, grounded in truth." The Rev. David Tryggestad By David Tryggestad March 14, 2025 at 12:52 PM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert left me gobsmacked by his March 5 Facebook post suggesting we “maybe turn off the news and take a social media break” — while we are losing our democracy! Was he nervous about the several hundred folks, me included, who gathered on all four corners of the intersection of Lake Avenue and Superior Street in Duluth the day before? Where was he? The mayor posted, “No matter where you stand politically it can be hard to know what’s real and what to believe.” Is Reinert buying into the right-wing propaganda machine that intends to “flood the zone with (excrement),” to quote former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon? ADVERTISEMENT In response to Reinert, I submit that “what’s real” includes that President Donald Trump and his cronies — chiefly Elon Musk, the czar of the Department of Government Efficiency — are orchestrating a coup of our government; that critical aid to government agencies, including USAID, has been suspended and tens of thousands of people across the globe will die of illness and starvation as a result; that government agencies are being gutted of personnel, with allegiance to Trump, not the Constitution, an apparent precondition of retention or rehiring; that neither Kash Patel nor Dan Bongino, the top two officials at the FBI, have prior experience with the agency; that Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., canceled the FDA’s annual flu vaccine meeting without rescheduling; that Trump ordered a pause on shipments of U.S. military aid to Ukraine; that Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth paused offensive cyberoperations against Russia by U.S. Cyber Command; that Trump is turning his back on Ukraine while embracing President Vladimir Putin of Russia; that Trump unilaterally reversed 80 years of U.S. foreign policy and security alliances, especially regarding Europe; that Trump suggested building luxury resorts over the rubble and bodies of more than 50,000 people in Gaza; that Trump’s on-again-off-again-on-again-off-again tariffs have destabilized global markets; and that the Trump administration is defying the Constitution with almost every move. Mayor Reinert rightly asserted in his post that “Duluth is one of the best communities in America.” It is noteworthy that the front-page headline of the Wednesday, March 14, 2007, News Tribune read, “Trust, participation define us,” regarding a Harvard University study that concluded that people in the Twin Ports “tend to be more active in their communities than people in other U.S. cities. Civic engagement and commitment to overall community wellbeing, with special concern for the vulnerable, are the hallmarks of our strength, the story stated. Reinert said Duluth is a place where people look out for each other. Where was our mayor when ICE arrested several members of a roofing company in Lakeside on Feb. 27? He said, in effect, it’s not the business of the city. Reinert said correctly that we can feel overwhelmed by political news, that it’s “like trying to drink from a firehose.” I would posit that the only response we have, the only chance to save our democracy, is to fight a firehose with hundreds, thousands, even hundreds of thousands of firehoses. Rather than flooding the zone with excrement, we must flood the zone with resistance and civil unrest, grounded in truth. The late civil-rights leader and congressman, John Lewis, encouraged us, “Never, ever be afraid to make some noise and get in good trouble, necessary trouble.” The time is now, before it is too late. We must unmask the illegitimate usurpers of our government, challenge the sycophant MAGA and GOP, and reclaim our flag and the democratic values for which it stands. The Rev. David Tryggestad of Duluth is a retired pastor and a contributor to the News Tribune Opinion page. ADVERTISEMENT READ MORE IN OPINION Editorial cartoon for Monday, Oct. 5, 2026 3h ago Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 23h ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 23h ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags LOCAL VIEW ROGER REINERT DONALD TRUMP Listen to this article What To Read Next Columns Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 2d ago &#183; By Richard E. Pierce Columns Candidate's View: Experience ensures northern voices will be heard in St. Paul 2d ago &#183; By Aaron Kania Columns Finding Faith: Experience the highs along with the lows 3d ago &#183; By Devlyn Brooks ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.