City of Duluth&#039;s potential new pilot program facing pushback from Animal Allies staff - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture City of Duluth's potential new pilot program facing pushback from Animal Allies staff By WDIO --> City of Duluth officials recently announced plans for a potential pilot partnership with Animal Allies Humane Society. Under the proposed deal, Animal Allies would take over long-term care for impounded animals, allowing Duluth Police to focus strictly on animal control duties. Mayor Roger Reinert highlighted that the proposed agreement plays to both organizations' strengths. He explained that the city is statutorily responsible for animal control, but non-profit partners are far better equipped to handle long-term care, "Where we find those opportunities for us to focus on the things that we must do, like animal control, and then partner with others on the other parts, like animal care, we see really successful models," Reinert said. "So, what we're working on with Animal Allies is a pilot project." However, shelter workers painted a starkly different picture during Monday night's City Council meeting. Staff members warned that Animal Allies is already facing severe operational and financial struggles. Workers highlighted that adoptions are at a three-year low, multiple dogs have been housed for over 100 days, and the organization has lost nearly 80 percent of its savings over the last six years. Staff member Kelsey Pettit urged city leaders to halt contract negotiations unless explicit funding for a facility expansion is included. She warned that trying to absorb Duluth’s full inventory of impounded pets into their current building would push the facility far past capacity. "In the last three weeks, those whispers now feel like screeches of a train rushing toward us," Pettit told council members. "Let me be clear. We are in no way ready to take on the city's full inventory of pets. We do not have the kennel space or staff hours to properly care for them. Our biggest fear is entering a partnership that is not beneficial to either party." Pettit added that Animal Allies already houses stray animals for four other municipalities, taking in 243 pets so far this year. Capacity calculators suggest the merger would leave the shelter over capacity by 10 dog kennels and 45 cat kennels, creating a "crisis of abundance" that could force the non-profit to euthanize animals for space or face financial collapse. In a statement released Tuesday, Animal Allies said: "The staff that were present stand by what was said at the City Council meeting. Negotiations are still taking place amongst executive leadership on both sides." Meanwhile, city leaders maintain that reimbursing Animal Allies on a fee-for-service basis will provide higher-quality animal care while shifting responsibilities effectively. Reinert noted that paying Animal Allies for service is a better use of resources than spending taxpayer dollars to renovate or rebuild the city's aging animal control building. City officials had originally hoped to enact a final agreement in the coming weeks, but have not yet publicly responded to the specific capacity and financial concerns raised by shelter staff. Both the city and Animal Allies board members remain hopeful that a temporary pilot program could eventually evolve into a long-term contract once logistical details are resolved. For Related Stories: Animal Allies Animal Rescue Animal Shelter Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed