Meet Roger Reinert, challenger for Duluth Mayor - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Meet Roger Reinert, challenger for Duluth Mayor By WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5196167&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] "Hi, Duluth. My name is Roger Reinert, and I am a candidate for Mayor. I am running for Mayor because like so many of you, I just think it's time for something different. It's time that we expect more, and do better with our core City services. Things like streets, utilities, and public safety. Our neighborhood parks and community centers, even engaging our residents. And I am running because we haven't had a meaningful race for Mayor since 2007. In fact, four years ago, two-thirds of Duluthians didn't even vote. That's not healthy for Duluth, or for our democracy. I come to this role with proven public sector, private sector, and military leadership experience. In my day job I am a licensed attorney, I teach college at St. Scholastica, and I am now in my 19th year of service with the United States Navy Reserves. I have had the opportunity to serve you, Duluth. On the City Council for five years, and also three terms in the State Legislature in both the House and the Senate. After leaving the Legislature, I spent a year overseas in Afghanistan and then deployed to Italy at the start of the COVID pandemic. The entire first part of our campaign was spent listening to you and taking notes. And out of that came your five big issues; housing across all incomes, growing our commercial tax base, streets (all-caps & lots of exclamation marks!!), Downtown Duluth, and affordable property taxes. These are not a list of complaints, they are your basic expectations of City Government. And I am running for Mayor because like you, I believe the next Mayor and administration can take tangible, practical steps to do better in all of these issue areas, and I believe it's time we do. And Duluth, if you're still undecided in this Election, I encourage you to cast your vote based on style alone. From day one, we've said that even in the way we campaign let's expect more and do better. We have been positive, forward-focused, and focused on the big issues. You have had the opportunity, Duluth, to see my public service over 20 years, a deep commitment to our community, State, and Country. And you have had the opportunity to see how I do work and how I approach it, thoughtful and hands-on; the ability to gather diverse stakeholders and develop practical solutions, and I hope you decide that's a risk you're willing to take. Duluth, I invite you to check us out online. We're at rogerforduluth.com, and all of our socials are @rogerforduluth. I would love to have your trust and your vote on November 7th. Thank you." Roger Reinert is challenging incumbent Mayor Emily Larson. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed