Roger Reinert sworn in as new mayor of Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Roger Reinert sworn in as new mayor of Duluth By WDIO --> Roger Reinert sworn in as new mayor of Duluth Roger Reinert has been sworn in as the city's 40th mayor. He said it was with great honor and humility that he steps into this role. A new year and a new start for city government in Duluth. Roger Reinert has been sworn in as the city's 40th mayor. He said it was with great honor and humility that he steps into this role. Supporters packed the rotunda at City Hall for the short ceremony on Tuesday. The Honorable Judge Dale Harris conducted the swearing in. Watch the Inauguration ceremony of Roger Reinert. "In the history of Duluth, there have been a total now of 40 mayors, but six of those individuals served more than once. Not consecutive terms, but served more than once. So that means in the 167 year history of Duluth, only 34 people have ever done this job," he said. Some of those people were acknowledged in the ceremony, including John Fedo, Gary Doty, Don Ness, and Emily Larson, all who were sitting in the front. Reinert also mentioned the late Herb Bergson, who he called a friend. As for why City Hall, Reinert said, "This is the place we do the work." As for the transition, he's looking forward to meeting right away with the department directors, to see where the challenges and opportunities are. He'll also lay out more of his vision for the future during his first State of the City address, which is planned for around the 100 day mark. Reinert is a U.S. Navy Commander and veteran who has previously served as a city councilor, state representative and state senator. Reinert defeated two-term mayor Emily Larson in November's election. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed