Duluth Police Department swears in eight new recruits - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth Police Department swears in eight new recruits By WDIO --> Duluth Police Department swears in eight new recruits Eight new recruits were sworn in to the Duluth Police Department. Eight new recruits were sworn in to the Duluth Police Department on Thursday, May 21. Each recruit completed multiple interviews and exams as a part of the application process. After being sworn in, the eight recruits will be paired up with experienced officers with the Duluth Police Department to help train them in. RELATED How the Duluth Police Department honored National Police Week &#8211; WDIO.com Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert and Police Chief Mike Ceynowa offered words of encouragement to the new officers as they start their careers. "It is important to us that we hire people who are caring, compassionate, factual and accountable. And you all possess these important traits," Police Chief Mike Ceynowa said. "You have my support, you have the support of the city administrator, you have the support of our city attorney," Mayor Roger Reinert said. "We believe in public safety in our community. Duluth is a supportive community for our public safety team for both law enforcement and your fire department partners as well." The eight recruits are: Tyler Holbrook, Evan Graves, Lucas Ciciora, Alexa Verry, Brady Herbst, Kaden Kucza, Grace Maciej, and Blayne Bruckelmyer. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth Police Department Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed