Duluth City Council discuss a drone first responder program for Duluth Police and more - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council discuss a drone first responder program for Duluth Police and more By WDIO --> Duluth City Council discuss a drone first responder program for Duluth Police and more Duluth City Council passes a resolution to fund a Duluth Police Department drone first responder program as a part of a packed agenda. The Duluth City Council met on Tuesday October 14th to discuss a packed agenda including a resolution authorizing the Duluth Police Department to make an over 1.9 million dollar purchase. That money would go to a drone as first responder program, which would allow the police department to send a drone to help officers get a better idea of a situation as they respond to calls. That money would also go to Draft One dictation report writing software from Axon Enterprises for a six year period which would help officers write reports quicker. The entirety of the 1.9 million would be paid over a number of years. Concerns over the budget deficit and surveillance were expressed at the meeting as councilors also considered the potential benefits of the new technology. "The police department responds when they get a 911 call. Sometimes they respond and notice that it might have been better to have a crisis response team or a homeless coordinator respond instead," said Duluth City Councilor Azrin Awal. "With the drone first responder program, our police department would still respond but have the drone go to the site firsthand. To make sure that police response is appropriate for the situation." After a discussion the resolution passed with a vote of 8 to 1. Also on the agenda were three items about the Chester Bowl Improvement Club's reconstruction of the Thom Storm Chalet, which also passed. "With us passing these resolutions, hopefully the beginning of next year, this project will really start hitting the ground," said Duluth City Councilor Tara Swenson. "We'll see that new chalet for all the great work that they do. So thank you to the community for all the work that they did." Also brought up at the meeting was a proposed year long pause for applications to convert single family homes into vacation rentals. That means people looking to convert a Duluth home into a bed and breakfast would have to wait a year, those who have already submitted an application or have a license would not be affected by the pause. We spoke with Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert prior to the meeting who told us that the pause would give the city time to create new policies surrounding the conversion of single family homes into vacation rentals. "What this pause would do is give us a chance to see at what is happening with vacation rentals within the city of Duluth," said Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert. "It is for a couple of reasons. Number one it has direct implications for our brick and mortar hospitality establishments. That's our hotels and motels that pay tourism taxes that are businesses that employ people that are part of our economic sector here in Duluth. Secondly, and we have seen this across the city but especially in key neighborhoods like around UMD in West Duluth and on Park point. We're seeing what I call the cannibalization of single family homes being converted into vacation rentals. This is a chance for our planning staff to work with public stakeholders and our city council to say what should vacation rentals look like in the city of Duluth." At the council meeting that item was tabled for the the next City Council meeting which is scheduled for October 27th. For Related Stories: Chester Bowl Duluth Duluth City Council Duluth Police Department Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed