Mayor Reinert weighs in on Lester Park debate - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Reinert weighs in on Lester Park debate By WDIO --> Future of Lester Park Golf Course no longer in resident's hands A 7 to 2 decision in Monday's Duluth City Council meeting means residents will no longer be able to vote on the development of the Lester Park Golf Course in November. RELATED: What is the plan for Lester Park Golf Course Duluth residents file lawsuit over alleged miscounted petition signatures Crowd applauds question about uncounted Lester Park signatures Lester Park development won't be on the ballot, Duluth council decides This comes after non-profit petition group, "Our Park, Our Vote", collected over 4,000 signatures as a plea to the city to let the community decide the fate of the vast green space. Recent allegations from the group suggest the signatures were miscounted by the city clerk, but now that doesn't matter, as the city says the petitions are illegal due to state laws that regulate development which supersede city charters. "Last night was this question of where the city charter provides an opportunity for petition and referendum that was in the 1959 overhaul and there's really always two questions. Are there a legal threshold of signatures? And then are they legal ballot questions? And that's what the council had to wrestle with last night," said Mayor Roger Reinert. Reinert said the city is facing $118 million in deferred maintenance liabilities for their City and Parks facilities, thus the city must be responsible whether or not to support new investments. "The only way the city, with year over year budget deficits, can ever do better than maybe a C minus job with our park system and our existing park amenities is by generating more tax base," said Reinert. "The best thing we can do to generate more of our own revenue without increasing the tax burden on our homeowners and businesses is to grow our housing stock and grow our commercial tax base. That generates more revenue that the city can then put back into things like streets and utilities and our park system." A land use study is in progress, with affordable housing and year-round outdoor usage the goal for the property. "This is a public process. It does not go through, you know, a final cut with the mayor. It's going to go to the council and the planning commission for presentation and votes," said Reinert. The community, however, has voiced their mistrust over the plan. "People are starting to see just how much this council body has been trying to shroud their decision making and narrow access to city council chambers and have weaponized Roger's rules and civility to mask agendas that are contrary to the majority's interest in town," said one Duluth resident during Monday's meeting. Council members have also shared their concern, including Wendy Durrwachter. In December, ownership of part of Lester Park was transferred from the city to DEDA for potential development. The decision was met with an eight to one vote by the council, with Durrwachter being the only person to say "No" because the land use study was incomplete. "We are here tonight because that event lit a fire under a constituent who passionately organized a group of people to sign a group of petitions because they don't trust the process," said Durrwachter. Durrwachter later said if the city attorney or chief administrative officer refuse to follow an order from the mayor, they would be guilty of insubordination. "This does put the city attorney and the city administrator in a difficult position. One thing I would like to see asked answered tonight is because there were 150 pages of 600 pages of petition signatures that were not counted. What made that occur?" Reinert told WDIO there's a separation of power between mayors and city councilors at the local level. "Those are assertions made for short-term political points. They have long-term negative consequences for the organization. Who wants to come and serve in a leadership role in an organization where they're going to have their integrity and ethics questioned in that way." An open house for Lester Park is this Thursday from 4 to 6 p.m. at Duluth East, where details from the latest land use study will be presented. Officials from Bolton and Menk will share their recommended vision for the site. For Related Stories: Fatima Avalos Duluth City Council Lester Park Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed