Mayor Roger Reinert delivers 2025 State of the City address - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Roger Reinert delivers 2025 State of the City address By WDIO --> Reinert delivers 2025 State of the City Address Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert delivered his second State of the City address from Ordean East Middle School on the evening of March 25. Speaking to other city and community leaders, as well as public safety officials and ordinary citizens, Mayor Reinert's second State of the City partly focused on the city government's accomplishments for 2024. These included highlights such as new housing construction, infrastructure and road repairs, and improvements to downtown, though in reference the latter, the Mayor admitted there was still work to be done. "We have not made the progress this past year downtown that I wanted to see us make. Cleanliness and public safety remain challenges. These issues impact everyone, residents, businesses, the individuals, shoppers, our visitors, and addressing them is crucial to realizing the potential of our downtown as a residential hub." The Mayor said. Looking at 2024, the Mayor was proud of having kept his campaign promise of giving Duluthians tax relief by not raising the property tax levy for the first time in a decade. However, he reminded the community that this was not a sustainable option moving forward, saying that if nothing was adjusted in the budget, property owners would see a 24% property tax increase over the next two years. "Rising valuation and property taxes have a real impact on everyday Duluthians, so let me be clear tonight. We're not going to do that." Reinert said. While he did say that property taxes would rise, he said that it would not be 24%. The Mayor also stated that challenges with funding cuts at the federal level and a massive deficit at the state level adds uncertainty to the budget outlook, which is why his administration has already begun their budget 2026, a process that typically starts in June. With further uncertainty at higher levels of government, Mayor Reinert also took time to emphasize what the role of city government is for citizens. "It's not to solve national political fights. Rather, our responsibility is to provide reliable, core city services. Those things upon which you both rely and you must depend. And our opportunity is to provide stability; stability in a historic time of disruption." Looking ahead, the Mayor also laid out plans for the future, including further conversations over the long-shuttered Lester Park Golf Course , possible consolidation talks with neighboring communities for things like libraries and parks, and expanded efforts for community engagement: the first citywide survey done this decade, an official city app, and even a Duluth-wide book reading, focusing on trying to foster renewed civility and responsible discourse surrounding politics. And while many see chaos when it comes to all things political, the Mayor closed his speech urging folks to remember their sense of shared purpose. "No matter what happens at the national level, what we build together as a community here in Duluth is what truly shapes our daily lives. And to be honest with dark clouds on the state and national horizon, we're going to need your help." Watch the full State of the City program: Read the full transcript of Mayor Reinert's State of the City Address below. Good evening, Duluth. It is my honor to be here with you tonight as your 40th Mayor and to have this opportunity to deliver my second State of the City. Just 11 short months since my first one. Those 11 months have been filled with hard work, challenges, sharp critiques, and plenty of lessons learned. There’s no onboarding for a new mayor. So it’s been a period of learning what you don’t know. But it’s also been a critical time of building, realigning, and refocusing. I want to begin by thanking Ordean-East for hosting us tonight. Last year we went west to historic Denfeld High School, and this being Duluth of course this year we HAD to go east! Last year we started with a bit of history about that place and space, so a special thank you to former Mayor Don Ness for taking a few minutes away from his day job as Executive Director of the Orden Foundation to share with us a bit about Mr. Albert Ordean. From the Foundation, to a building downtown, to a Court and UMD, to this school &#8211; a name we know, but as a community know little about. Thank you as well to the East National Honor Society for volunteering tonight to help with greeting and seating, and to the East High School Sterling Strings for their music that helped welcome us all here tonight. Thank you to Councilor Mayou for welcoming us to the Second District, and to President Tomanek for your comments tonight. I want to recognize all our City Councilors here this evening, other elected officials, and our city staff. As well as business, civic, and faith community leaders. We are all partners in this big small town and working together to make Duluth a better place for all. And I want to thank each resident joining us tonight, whether in person or watching from home via the livestream. You make Duluth the historic, unique, diverse, inclusive, and welcoming community that we are. And to my partner, my family, and my friends, your support, words of encouragement, and assistance in helping me stay the person doing the thing versus becoming the thing is instrumental—thank you. I hear all the time – Mayor must be a hard job. My response? You have no idea. People think that the City of Duluth is responsible for everything that happens in Duluth. And they think the Mayor knows every single thing that happens at City Hall, and that you personally make every single decision. And I’m just going to day it – in Duluth we make EVERY thing political, and most things at the local level really aren’t. Last year, I committed to focusing on five big issues: growing our commercial tax base, housing across all income levels, streets and utilities, downtown Duluth, and affordable property taxes. And in 2024 we accomplished a lot: ● Today we have a multimillion-dollar expansion underway at the Sofidel plant in West Duluth. A $200M investment that will triple the current workforce. ● The new Amazon distribution center is currently hiring, and set to open soon. ● Along with Second Harvest these projects highlight our far west corridor as our real growth corridor &#8211; a place where we have the land for business and residential construction, and neighborhoods that welcome it. It’s also where rail, freeway, and water come together – and an easy connection to the airport. Post pandemic Multimodal is the competitive advantage. ● We broke ground on the Incline Village and Lakeview 333 projects. When complete the Incline Village will be an entire new Duluth neighborhood with 1300 market rate apartments, condos, retail, and outdoor amenities. ● We repaired over 19 miles of streets in 2024 and are keeping pace in 2025 with the roughly 15mi/yr EVERY year we need in order to refresh our street system every 30 years. ● We kicked butt on filling potholes, and something I’m ridiculously excited about &#8211; we did cracksealing for the first time in years. It’s not just about refreshing and rebuilding &#8211; it’s also about maintenance and preservation. ● In partnership with downtown stakeholders, we kicked off the Imagine Downtown Duluth process ● As a community we now understand that the future of downtown is residential, and we are actively moving in that direction. New construction at Lakeview 333 on one end of downtown combined with the conversion of the Ordean building from commercial to residential at the other. These two projects alone will add some 500 new residents to Downtown Duluth and meet ⅓ of our goal of 1500 new residents and a significant step towards an actual downtown neighborhood. ● We hosted downtown Public Safety meeting with DPD, DFD, and City Attorney ● We passed a controversial but significant set of public safety measures that gave our public safety team additional tools between the extremes of administrative fines and a felony. ● We peacefully resolved a 2.5-month encampment in Priley Circle ● After 15 years, the Kozy is FINALLY down. And demolition of the Shoppers Ramp has been approved and will begin soon. ● We completed securing the Hart, 1st St, and Tech Village Ramps. ● We have seven labor unions at City Hall and all had contracts up in 2024. That’s a lot in ANY year, but especially your first year. We settled six of those labor agreements, and negotiations are currently underway with Fire to get to seven. ● We moved tourism marketing out of City Hall and back to the DMO (Visit Duluth) where it has historically been and where it belongs. We are not tourism experts and the future of this key industry should not be so political. ● And with a 9-0 vote of the City Council we set a 0% property tax levy for the first time after a decade of 9% average year over year increases. A significant step towards a tax burden our residents and businesses can both afford and sustain. I‘m also proud that we also spent last year committing City Hall to good process, even when that didn’t make for good politics. A major first year task for any new Mayor is building their leadership team. We already have an exceptional one and in the next year it will only get better. They are highly skilled and deeply invested in the City of Duluth organization. They are subject matter experts with strong ties to this community, a clear vision for Duluth’s future, and the dedication needed to get us there. Nine new hires at the leadership table. And a year ago I didn’t know a single one of them. These are all Mayoral appointments. Key roles for accomplishing the agenda for which voters elected me. I was not obligated to use ANY process. Simply make my recommendations to the City Council and ask for their support. But we didn’t hire friends or reward donors. It wasn’t about personal loyalty. And we didn’t attempt to check any political boxes. Instead, we looked at the needs of the organization, rewrote job descriptions, and in some cases created them where they had never existed. We then went to market for the best candidates we could find &#8211; even if that meant some short-term pain &#8211; and at times sharp criticism &#8211; while we took the time necessary to do it. This is the kind of good work that goes unnoticed and doesn’t make the newspaper. Process over politics. A couple other quick leadership notes before I leave this topic. A big lesson for me in the first year was the distinction between the role of mayor and the role of City Administrator. The job of Mayor is to provide vision and direction, and look externally. The job of City Administrator is to implement that vision by focusing internally and overseeing the day to day operations of the City. The mayor isn’t actually the most important job in City Hall; the City Administrator is. So we are incredibly fortunate to have had an exceptional new City Administrator start just under two months ago. Welcome aboard Matt. Administrator Matt Staehling has 30 years in local government Is an attorney with HR and labor background, and served as City Attorney And most recently served for a decade as City Administrator in St. Cloud He brings experience with one of our competitors in the regional center market space, one that sits in three counties. He knows and understands partnerships and how to be regional He is also an Army veteran who deployed twice. Thank you for your service. The feedback so far on Matt has been outstanding. He has an upbeat attitude and positive outlook. He is approachable, listens more than he speaks, and is very collaborative. And perhaps the best compliment I can give him is that I have heard multiple times now that his former coworkers are either mad, or sad, that he left them and joined our team.This is also a good opportunity to make clear that despite the rhetoric at the national level, we remain committed in our organization to diversity, equity, sustainability, and resiliency. Last year we had an opening in our Human Rights Officer position, and took the opportunity to evaluate both external requirements and internal needs, and to develop the role’s first job description and expand responsibilities. It is now a key leadership role that covers the required Human Rights obligations contained in the city charter, but is also a leader for our important internal work of equity and inclusion, and also is a community level resource for our businesses and organizations. It took us a minute to find the right candidate, but Dr. Marsha Lue was worth the wait. She has been with us for just over a month and is already making a difference. We are thrilled to have her at our leadership table, and as a resource for other organizations in our community – especially at this moment in history. We continue to support this work not because it’s a political statement, but because we believe diversity is a strength within our community and also our organization. And earlier this year we lost an amazing leader in Mindy Grandley to the State of Minnesota. She is taking all that she learned and did for our organization, and as a key team leader providing that support to local units of government across the state. As with every other opportunity, we have spent the past month reviewing and revising the job description, and it still has a few more internal hoops to clear, but we expect it to post in early April. The revised job description has been expanded and is now responsible for leadership around environmental sustainability, energy efficiency, resilient transportation systems, and sustainable utility management. If you know someone who is progressive in their thinking and practical in application encourage them to apply. Being able to seek, obtain, and monitor grants and financial partnerships is a must. Along with better understanding my role, I also learned that the five big issues you told me about on the campaign trail, and were our focus as priorities in Year One, are really THREE: Effective and efficient core city services ○ At a tax rate our residents and businesses can afford Housing at all income levels ○ Including the focus on a downtown residential neighborhood And Growing our commercial tax base ○ Because commercial pays 2/3 of the tax bill ○ So when we’re not growing commercial residential makes up the difference. And we need substantially more of it. We did A LOT of hard work in 2024 and are entering 2025 with positive momentum. We have many accomplishments about which we should rightly be proud. In 2025 we will have some significant challenges, but also some opportunities: First, we have not made the progress this past year downtown that I wanted to see us make. Cleanliness and public safety remain challenges. Graffiti and litter. Property damage. Behaviors that were in ramps have now moved into skywalks. And while most individuals struggling with mental health and substance use issues are non-violent &#8211; that’s not true for all. These issues impact everyone: residents, businesses, shoppers and our visitors. Addressing them is crucial to realizing the potential of our downtown as a residential hub. Because friends that IS the future. A place that was once commercial, then retail, then professional, will next be residential. It makes the most sense given the post-pandemic trends. And, we desperately need the housing to meet workforce needs and to meet our population goal of 90,000 by 2030.And to be blunt &#8211; we can’t afford for downtown property values to fall off a cliff. Neither can the County or the school district. Two months ago, a building in downtown Mpls that was purchased for $200M in 2016 sold for $6M in 2025. That’s a 97% decrease in value in nine years. 97%. Public safety and cleanliness are the foundation for a successful downtown. That’s why we have added our CSOs in addition to badged officers, outreach teams, and the Clean and Safe Team to create a stronger presence in the downtown core. It’s also why I supported the effort by City Councilors Arik Forsman, Roz Randorf, and Tara Swenson to examine the existing skywalk system. I look forward to these external recommendations. Because right now we are attempting to monitor, maintain, and activate three miles of elevated skywalk. In addition to 30+ blocks at street level. We are overdue to ask basic questions regarding when, where, and how much. But downtown issues can’t just be City of Duluth issues. They are community issues. Duluth issues. We do public safety, but we’re not the only ones who do public safety. And we don’t do health and human services at all. To focus on the root causes of issues we’ve seen post-pandemic means working closely with St. Louis County and state partners to address homelessness, mental health, and substance use. These aren’t challenges any single entity can solve. The City, County, state agencies, business community, civic groups, faith communities, private foundations and nonprofits all have a role to play. And all have responsibilities. In my last SOTC I told you we would hold the line on property taxes &#8211; and we did. The first 0% levy in a decade. But at that time I also told you it was unlikely we could do that every year. We have all the same cost drivers as everyone else in materials and wages. Again, seven labor contracts – all of which were last negotiated during the pandemic. All of which include wage increases. In fact, in 2025, every city employee will see a wage increase but one. (raise hand). And we already spend 82% of our GF on wages and benefits. If we take NO other actions, we are already looking at an 18% property tax increase in 2025, and another 8% in 2026. And that smaller number in 2026 is based on the huge number in 2025. Rising valuations and property taxes have a real impact on Duluthians so let me be clear tonight: We’re not going to do that. We normally begin the budget process in June, but this year it started last week. I can’t tell you tonight what the property tax number will be, but I can tell you it won’t be 24% over the next two years. And that math does not account for what is happening at the state and federal level. With the recent passage of the continuing resolution we saw $1.5M in potential funding for the critical lift bridge and water treatment plant projects evaporate. And of course the State recently learned their budget deficit for the next biennium is a $1B worse and now totals $6B. That’s roughly 10% of the state’s general fund. Duluth must be concerned about this because local government aid (LGA) is our single largest source of revenue, and accounts for nearly 1/3 of COD income. Any loss of LGA will directly translate into reductions in the city budget. And if we’re honest with ourselves we know that the actions being taken at the federal level are only going to make the state budget situation worse, and in turn our budget situation worse. Because federal flows to state which flows to local. Yet streets and utilities must be repaired, bridges must be fixed, and we must ensure clean and safe drinking water to our residents and near neighbors. Before I speak about this next topic, I want to take a minute and acknowledge a couple other special guests tonight – the Mayors of our near neighbor cities. Mayor Boucher was unable to be with us tonight, but Mayor Chad Ward from Proctor and Mayor Suzanne Herstad from Rice Lake are both in attendance. Thank you for inviting me to your “State of the Cities” event last week, and for making it a priority to be here tonight. I appreciate you and the partnership we are all developing. It’s good for our communities and good for our region. In 2025 you will here me say regional a lot. ● Because what happens in your communities matters to Duluth. And I know that what happens in Duluth matters to your residents. If I had $1 for every time someone said, I don’t live in Duluth but . . . I wouldn’t be worried about the City budget. ● 2/3 of St Louis County population lives in Duluth or a community with whom we share a border. 2/3. Some 135,000 people. ● We have to focus on better partnerships with our near neighbors, and with St. Louis County ● And we have to seriously think about regional services: things like a regional library system, and a regional park system. Regional economic development represented by a regional EDA (econ dev authority). And of course a regional water treatment plant. ● Most of the systems and services in Duluth were developed in the 1950s and 1960s at a time when Duluth had 110,000 residents, was the third largest city in the state, and the only near neighbor we had was Proctor with a population of under 3,000 people. Things have changed a little in the last 70 years. We cannot continue to operate based on a model from the 1950s and 1960s of Duluth being THE big city. If we were to whiteboard these things today we would do things differently. I know we all have our hands full until the end of the Legislative session, but early this summer I look forward to an opportunity for the four of us to get together and see what might make sense for all four of our communities &#8211; and our tax payers. Our final big issue in 2025 will be to take tangible steps forward with the former Lester Park Golf Course. It simply cannot continue to sit and deteriorate. The Lester Park Golf Course was established in 1934. The land for Lester was acquired through a combination of donations and financial contributions. Thomas Cole, president of Oliver Iron Mining, donated land in 1890 for city development. In 1929, prominent community members formed the City Land Co. to finance the construction of the golf course. The course was expanded in 1985 to 27 holes with the addition of the "Lake 9," providing a more challenging – and incredibly scenic &#8211; layout. With 20 of its holes offering views of Lake Superior, the course was listed as one of the ten most scenic courses in the state by Explore Minnesota. The City closed Lester in 2020 due to financial constraints and the impact of the COVID pandemic. In 2021, the Duluth City Council unanimously approved a resolution to transfer 37 acres of Lester to the Duluth Economic Development Authority (DEDA) with the goal to build new residential and help address our housing shortage as well as generate revenue to support operations. I heard a LOT about Lester on the campaign trail. Sure, this is a HUGE issue in the First District. But not only the First District. I heard from advocates throughout the community who felt there hadn’t been enough opportunity to engage with this decision and consider alternative possibilities to permanent closure. I pledged to those folks that they would have another bite at the apple. Or, swing from the tee box. So last year I created a working group charged with exploring year-round recreational activities including, but not exclusive to, golf. They were also asked to evaluate nonprofit and alternative management models where the city would retain ownership but external partners would manage operations. Akin to the Lake Superior Zoo model. They were also asked to consider the potential for additional adjacent housing. This was no easy task, and I want to thank members of various groups like the DAOA, COGGS, DXC, DuFTA, SHT, and Friends of Duluth Public Golf who participated and provided input. I also want to thank the golf advocates, neighborhood residents, and Lester area business owners who participated and provided input. And I especially want to thank Tim Meyer who took on the thankless task of trying to facilitate some very disparate interests. The working group has a deadline of April 1, which is now just days away. And my understanding is that four different possibilities have developed and been explored. All of which require fairly substantial financial resources. I’ve been told none of these has a consensus of support from the entire group. I’ve asked Mr. Meyer to make a presentation to the Council at a Committee of the Whole in April. While it may be disappointing to those passionate about Lester that there isn’t a clear path forward as a result of the working group’s efforts, I will take this very public opportunity to thank them for their work. As we consider next steps some elements of a future master plan have become very clear as a result of their work: public green space. A building that can provide equipment rental, community meeting space, event space, food and beverage. A connection of all the adjacent hiking, biking, and ski trails. Housing. And yes – golf. As I bring this 2025 address to a conclusion, I want to highlight three other smaller, but important, initiatives in 2025 intended to increase communication, connection, and resident engagement. By show of hands &#8211; how many people know the resident problem reporter portal exists, and how to use it? Exactly. I have spoken repeatedly about the need for a City of Duluth app. Superior has one that works well, and Duluth is overdue. A dedicated mobile app would help streamline communication and services. The city app will better centralize key functions like reporting issues—whether a pothole or streetlight outage—and provide easy access to city news, bill payments, permit applications, and emergency alerts. A city app will increase transparency, improve responsiveness, and foster a stronger connection between the city and its residents by offering a more simple, efficient, and convenient way to engage with the City. It will replace the resident problem reporter portal and take advantage of a powerful tool nearly all of us have at our fingertips (pull out my phone). And be much for effective than calling the City complaint line (aka the Mayor’s phone line). In 2025 we plan on conducting the first resident survey since 2019. Nothing has changed since 2019 right? We make our best decisions when they are based on data, and in too many instances we make decisions based on information that is anecdotal. The resident survey will give the City valuable insight on how our residents think things are going. Not just those who show up to a neighborhood meeting, focus group, or public input session. But also those who are working multiple jobs, have transportation limitations, or are struggling to raise our youngest Duluthians as single parents. This survey will allow us to gather direct feedback on the quality of life in our 34 neighborhoods, city services, and priorities for future city investments. And for as long as I’m your mayor, we will refresh this survey annually. Regularly collecting this data will help our 900-employee $458M operation make better informed decisions that align with the needs and concerns of the community. The third initiative in 2025 designed to better connect us as a community is a return of the citywide book read. Today’s politics amplify any mistake or misstep and seek out controversy. Instead of debating and discussing we wage social media wars where we seek to defeat and destroy. If someone is happy they tell you personally. If they are unhappy they go online and try to tell the world. This behavior is eroding our civic fabric. We need more opportunities in our big small town to connect personally and relearn how to treat each other with civility and respect. We are a stronger community when we find ways to build deeper relationships with old friends and new neighbors, as well as think and speak positively about our community and Duluth’s future. Duluth can, and should, be the community to model better behavior. Accountability to each other for our words and actions – whether in-person or online. And a great opportunity for doing that is to leverage a wonderful public resource: the Duluth Public Library. I’ve asked Carla Powers, Manager of our Library and Erin Kreeger, Executive Director at the Library Foundation, to suggest a book we could all read over the course of the next twelve months. One that would help us focus on countering the growing trend towards harsh, negative, and bullying online behavior. Behavior that discourages, rather than encourages, the most basic tool in civil society: respectful public discourse. One potential read is Sherry Turkle’s Reclaiming Conversation. It focuses on how technology is affecting our ability to communicate meaningfully. She gives tangible suggestions for restoring human connection, improving our communication skills, and fostering accountability in conversation. I’m open to other suggestions, but that’s a good place to start. My goal is that at the end of the read, much like 2013 when Rebecca Skloot came to Duluth to discuss The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, we will invite the author of our 2025 read to come to town and help lead a community conversation. It will be an investment not only in ourselves, but also our community. And perhaps show other communities a better way to engage with each other in this digital age – and also engage with our democracy. Finally, let me close by acknowledging the elephant in the room. Your concerns, fears, anxieties, frustrations, and confusion about what’s happening at the national level. These are all valid. I share them—not just as your mayor, but as an individual who is also living through this moment in history. We are in a time of intense national division, and it’s natural to want to bring those conversations to the local level, where government feels more tangible, more responsive, and is easier to access. But that’s likely going to feel frustrating. Because we live in a federal system where various levels of government have specific areas of responsibility. At the local level our job is to deliver core city services. Effective and efficient and at a tax rate you can afford and sustain. It’s not to solve national political fights. Rather, our responsibility is to provide reliable core city services. Things upon which you can rely and depend. Our opportunity is to provide stability in a historic time of disruption. But let me also say this: the highest office in the land is not mayor, governor, or even president—it is citizen. Real change doesn’t just happen from the top down. If you are concerned then become engaged, get informed, and take action. If you are frustrated, turn that frustration into something productive—volunteer. Get involved in ways that make a difference right here in Duluth. Because no matter what happens at the national level, what we build together as a community is what truly shapes our daily lives. And, with dark clouds on the state and national horizon we’re going to need your help. Thank you again to everyone who took the time to join us tonight live or online. We’re going to close with our Clarence Maddy Award, Citizen of the Year Award, and Good Neighbor Award so stay with us for a few more minutes. These individuals deserve more attention and recognition than I do. Friends, what I love most about Duluth is that we’re a big small town. We’re not one degree of separation &#8211; we’re more like a quarter degree of separation. In 2025, let’s use that closeness and connectedness to our advantage. Let’s encourage and support those who serve. Let’s call out those who behave like bullies. Let’s engage in a community book read that helps us build the skills to do better. Let’s decide that in Duluth not everything has to be political. And let’s resolve that in 2025 we’re not merely going to survive, but choose to work together to thrive as a community. Thank you Mayor Reinert's 2024 State of the City can be found here . For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert Twin Ports --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed