Mayor Roger Reinert delivers State of the City Address - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Roger Reinert delivers State of the City Address By WDIO --> Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert delivered his State of the City Address Thursday after spending 100 days in office. The event was held in the Denfeld High School Auditorium. This is Mayor Reinert’s first State of the City. He was elected Mayor of Duluth on November 7, 2023. Mayor Reinert focused on five key issues in tonight's speech. He talked about housing across all income categories, commercial tax base growth, streets and utilities, Downtown Duluth and affordable property taxes. Fifth District Councilor Janet Kennedy and City Council President Roz Randorf spoke prior to Mayor Reinert's speech. “I chose Denfeld because I'm a fan of Duluth history,” said Reinert. “There are so many connections to our most amazing chapters that all tie back to this place.” Reinert also noted that he lived on the west side of town. Mayor Reinert spent most of his time discussing major issues he campaigned on in 2023. He highlighted the action steps that had already been taken in each area, and discussed the work yet to be done. In his address, Reinert asked the City Council to send unused ARPA dollars to the Duluth Economic Development Authority (DEDA) so those funds could be applied to gap financing on housing projects, as well as site prep and utility infrastructure costs. Reinert pledged to hold Duluth's 2025 local property tax levy flat for the first time since 2014. “After nearly 50% growth in just the last eight years, Duluth taxpayers need a breather.” Reinert also shared that according to the City's Finance team, a third party actuarial, and the State Board of Investment, the City has successfully funded its retiree healthcare obligation. He said that frees up $4.5M in the city budget beginning in 2025. The Mayor advocated using these funds to finance a new combined maintenance facility for the City. “I asked the staff smart enough to find these dollars how we could best use them to support our core city service priorities. Without hesitation they said a combined maintenance facility.” "We have to be better systems thinkers and we have to do a better job of actually moving the needle. This project may seem a little boring, but it's a great example of doing both those things well.” Reinert concluded by calling on Duluth to have a “growth mentality”. “By the 2030 Census Duluth should be over 90,000 people.” Duluth’s population was once nearly 107,000, but has hovered at just under 87,000 for over three decades. He noted that growing the population would indicate moving the needle on all the big issues: creating more housing, growing the economy and tax base, better investment in core City infrastructure, revitalizing downtown, and spreading out the existing tax burden. The Denfeld Jazz Band performed prior to the event. Mayor Reinert delivers State of the City Address Mayor Reinert highlighted five key issues in Thursday's State of the City Address at Denfeld High School. For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed