Local View: Reinert's focus for investment needs to be targeted - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Columns Local View: Reinert's focus for investment needs to be targeted From the column: "It is hard to ignore the extent of economically underperforming land in and around Duluth’s downtown core." The Duluth Waterfront Collective's reimagined Interstate 35 corridor through downtown Duluth aims to promote a more livable, equitable, and sustainable city, the group says. Contributed / Duluth Waterfront Collective By David Roise May 05, 2026 at 1:20 PM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? I was encouraged to read that Mayor Roger Reinert and his leadership team plan to apply a “Strong Towns” lens to Duluth’s future (Mayor’s View: “ With 'strong towns' focus, Duluth can seize path forward ,” April 16). As the mayor explained in his column in the News Tribune, the approach emphasizes resilience, local investment, and fiscal responsibility — principles that have long been promoted by the Strong Towns organization. ADVERTISEMENT In that context, it was somewhat disappointing that the photograph accompanying the mayor’s piece showed construction activity at Hawk Ridge Estates, a single‑family housing development high above the city in eastern Duluth. While the choice of photo was an editorial decision, its effect was a mixed message about how Duluth should be moving forward in its efforts to become a more vibrant and resilient community. For those unfamiliar with it, Strong Towns is a nonprofit that has long emphasized the economic productivity of traditional, pre–World War II neighborhood-development patterns. Cities like Duluth were originally built around compact downtowns; mixed‑use corridors; and walkable neighborhoods that supported local businesses, efficient infrastructure, and long‑term fiscal sustainability. By contrast, the more suburban, car‑dependent development pattern that spread after World War II often produced lower economic returns while requiring higher public infrastructure costs. A geoanalytics firm closely associated with Strong Towns, Urban3, has produced compelling visualizations that illustrate these differences. Its three‑dimensional maps show taxable value per acre across cities, highlighting how traditional downtown cores consistently outperform auto‑oriented suburban areas. An Urban3 analysis of St. Paul shows the highest tax productivity in the downtown business district and in nearby neighborhoods to the west of downtown that were developed along historic streetcar lines prior to World War II. These areas typically feature multi‑family housing, small apartment buildings, and locally owned businesses — and are well served by walking, biking, and transit. In contrast, neighborhoods developed more recently in St. Paul — dominated by single‑family homes, large franchise businesses, and extensive surface parking — generate substantially lower taxable value per acre. As Urban3 shows, these areas also tend to be significantly more expensive to maintain due to their expansive road networks and utilities. Based on comparable analyses, an Urban3‑type study of Duluth would likely show that the city’s most productive lands are along Superior Street in the central business district and within many of its historic neighborhoods, including Lincoln Park, Spirit Valley, Canal Park, Central Hillside, Chester Park, and Lakeside — areas largely developed before World War II. Mayor Reinert is absolutely right that Duluth should focus on the Strong Towns principles of resilience, local investment, and fiscal responsibility. That focus, however, will be most effective if it prioritizes areas that already provide the greatest economic value to the city — and those that have the greatest potential to do so. In this regard, it is hard to ignore the extent of economically underperforming land in and around Duluth’s downtown core. For example, the I‑35 corridor remains an area with significant redevelopment potential, particularly if proposals such as those advanced by the Duluth Waterfront Collective to replace the freeway with a surface-level parkway are further explored. Likewise, large portions of downtown currently devoted to surface parking could become far more productive if incentives favored redevelopment over land speculation. The adoption of a land-value tax district downtown would better align public policy with the city’s stated goals, and the city should work with state officials to explore legislation allowing such districts in Minnesota. ADVERTISEMENT The challenges Duluth faces are real, but so are the opportunities. Applying Strong Towns principles in a focused and disciplined way — especially in neighborhoods that matter most to the city’s long‑term fiscal health — would offer a clear path toward a stronger, more resilient Duluth. I look forward to seeing those principles put into practice in ways that enhance the vibrancy and productivity of our most valuable neighborhoods. David Roise of Duluth and Menlo Park, California, is a patent attorney, bike and pedestrian advocate, and homeowner in the Congdon neighborhood. David Roise READ MORE IN OPINION Editorial cartoon for Monday, Oct. 5, 2026 3h ago Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 23h ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 23h ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags LOCAL VIEW DOWNTOWN DULUTH CANAL PARK ROGER REINERT Listen to this article What To Read Next Subscribers Only Cartoons Editorial cartoon for Sunday, Oct. 4, 2026 1d ago &#183; By John Darkow Columns Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 2d ago &#183; By Richard E. Pierce Subscribers Only Cartoons Editorial cartoon for Saturday, Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Joe Heller ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.