Jimmy Lovrien - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Jimmy Lovrien City, environment and 8th District reporter Twitter Linkedin Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He interned at the paper in summer 2015 and was hired full time in fall 2017 after graduating from the College of St. Scholastica. During his time at the News Tribune, he has earned multiple awards from the Minnesota Professional Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists and the Minnesota Newspaper Association for his investigative and breaking news reporting. He recently completed a data fellowship through the USC Annenberg Center for Health Journalism. Email: jlovrien@duluthnews.com Phone: 218-461-9718 Signal: jimmylovrien.90 Subscribers Only Local Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass Stabilizing the renourished beach between the Lift Bridge and 12th Street Beach may reduce blowing sand and erosion, but it's no permanent fix. It may not survive storms like those of 2017 and 2018. 2d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local Zeleznikar, Schweiger face off in 3B forum Given Rep. Zeleznikar's previous razor-thin victories, the race is expected to be close, and its outcome could decide which party controls the Minnesota House of Representatives next session. 5d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% The additional $1.6 million raised through the property tax increase will offset only a portion of the $5.5 million deficit. The council must approve a 2027 budget by the end of the year. 5d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local Duluth OKs tax subsidies for housing project near LSC The tax-increment financing district requires 20% of the building, or 30 units, to be affordable and made available for people making 50% or less of the area's median income. Sep 17 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Subscribers Only Local This Grand Rapids warehouse keeps wildfire crews stocked The Northeast Interagency Fire Cache played a key role in supplying the 2,000 personnel responding to this summer's fires. Sep 16 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local Duluth bars new vacation rentals from single-family homes The ordinance, passed unanimously, is meant to combat the housing shortage. It also puts the fire department’s Life Safety Division in charge of permitting and enforcement of vacation rentals. Sep 14 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local Reinert proposes levy increase The Duluth City Council must vote on the levy by the end of the month, and pass the final city budget by the end of the year. Sep 11 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local Forest Service will keep Grand Rapids, Ely research facilities open It's a reversal for the agency, which had previously slated the locations for closure. Sep 10 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local DNR lists concerns on Hermantown data center environmental review The city said it would work with the state agency to address their concerns, while opponents of Google's data center said it was further proof that a more stringent environmental review is needed. Sep 8 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Subscribers Only Local Duluth's tree canopy shrinks, but total tree population increases Duluth, which has trees covering more than half of the city’s area, saw its tree canopy decline by 4.5% over a decade, but the street tree population rose by 2%, according to DNR data. Sep 5 &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Load More Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.