Mayors talk development, recreation - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Business Mayors talk development, recreation Annual State of the Cities luncheon covered key priorities and projects happening in Proctor, Hermantown and Rice Lake. Hermantown mayor Wayne Boucher speaks during the State of the Cities luncheon Thursday, March 12, at Black Woods in Proctor. Clint Austin / Duluth Media Group By Brielle Zywicki March 15, 2026 at 6:45 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? PROCTOR — The mayors of Proctor, Hermantown and Rice Lake shared the various ways each community is working toward a stronger regional economic outlook during Hermantown Area Chamber’s annual State of the Cities luncheon. The goal is for each city to complement — not compete with — their neighboring communities, the mayors said at the March 12 event at Black Woods Event Center in Proctor. ADVERTISEMENT “We know that Duluth is the regional center upon which the rest of the region is built,” said Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert, who also spoke at the luncheon. “It makes no sense for our communities to be in competition with each other, to be replicating each other. Our residents live within a 10-mile radius of each other.” Proctor, Rice Lake and Hermantown collectively have more than 18,000 residents and make up just under 10% of the population of St Louis County. Sports tourism, outdoor recreation takes shape in Proctor Proctor has remained focused on responsible budgeting, protecting essential services and planning infrastructure deliberately, according to Mayor Chad Ward. “We are building stability, and stability builds business confidence. Public safety remains our foundation,” Ward said. “Safe communities attract families. Safe communities attract businesses, and safe communities retain investment.” Proctor mayor Chad Ward speaks during the State of the Cities Luncheon on Thursday, March 12, 2026, at Black Woods in Proctor. Clint Austin / Duluth Media Group Over the past decade, stakeholders have explored how Proctor could participate in the growing sports tourism economy, which has led to developments like the NXS National Complex . The first phase of the development will include a multi-use sports dome designed for year-round activity, along with a hotel, restaurant space, apartments and an outdoor synthetic ice rink. The dome will be capable of hosting multiple athletic events simultaneously, and adapt to a variety of sports. “Private investment at this scale reflects confidence, not only in Proctor, but in this entire region,” Ward said. “This project allows Proctor to participate competitively in a tourism market that already exists, not to dominate it, but to responsibly claim our place within it.” ADVERTISEMENT The city is also moving forward with the North 40 trail project and a separate trail connection project that will link Proctor to Hermantown’s trail system — and ultimately connect into the Willard Munger State Trail. The connection will likely be named for the late Rep. Mary Murphy. Rice Lake is ripe for development Rice Lake, which celebrated its 10th anniversary as a city in October, continues to navigate recent changes in leadership following the resignation of Suzanne Herstad last summer after a decade as a councilor and later mayor. Jayme Heim now serves as mayor. “We have pretty much a new council, new mayor,” Heim said. “It's been a definite learning curve for all of us. It has had mixed reactions from the residents.” Rice Lake mayor Jayme Heim speaks during the State of the Cities luncheon. Clint Austin / Duluth Media Group Rice Lake will hold a special election in November for the mayor seat and two council seats. This year, the city will begin a build-out of its utility system after receiving a $3.3 million federal grant with a local match for water and wastewater infrastructure improvements to help establish a new Minnesota Power service center. The project is anticipated to create 150 jobs, retain 60 jobs and generate $150 million in private investment, according to a release. The project also opens up development opportunities on hundreds of acres of undeveloped and tax-forfeited land within the city, as well as another 115 acres of previously limited or controlled-access land for commercial mixed-use and residential, Heim said. ADVERTISEMENT Additionally, St. Louis County’s Rice Lake Road Corridor Project is slated for 2027-2029. The county received $25 million in federal funding — along with $8.9 million from the state. “This will be Rice Lake’s commercial corridor,” Heim said. “It's where we would like to see a lot of business growth occur. There's a lot of undeveloped land in that area.” ALSO READ Analysts believe polls show ‘thin margins’ for upcoming elections 2d ago Fond du Lac band brings Anang Cannabis to downtown Duluth 3d ago Features reporter joins News Tribune team 4d ago In addition to four roundabouts, a new connector street will be constructed between West Calgary and Martin roads. The corridor project will also include a new bike and pedestrian pathway that will eventually connect with Duluth’s Lake Walk. “Something that is important to the council as well as our residents, is that we maintain that rural feel,” Heim said. “I don't see that changing any time in the near future, but we would certainly like to see some growth happening.” Heim will join the county and Duluth during the annual visit to the Capitol March 18-19 to request the state’s support on a $3.8 million bond to get the work done in a timely manner. Google’s investment in Hermantown Sales tax revenue saw a bump with the growing retail industry in Hermantown, Mayor Wayne Boucher said. Hermantown’s property value has also grown, doubling in the past decade from $900 million to $1.8 billion. And, in line with its recent resolution to grow recreational opportunities, the NorthStar Ford Arena was completed while Fichtner Field underwent a major renovation. ADVERTISEMENT Hermantown mayor Wayne Boucher speaks during the State of the Cities Luncheon on Thursday, March 12, 2026, at Black Woods in Proctor. Clint Austin / Duluth Media Group “The attracting of new commercial opportunities is something our region has struggled with for decades,” Boucher said. “In the midst of all these regular challenges, Hermantown has been presented with a special opportunity that few areas have. Has anyone heard of Google?” The firm recently announced its plans for a new, massive data center in Hermantown. Boucher said that while the Hermantown project is still being explored, Google has also made a home in Pine Island, where the company pays more than $100 million in property taxes and is investing $23 million into the school district. “There's no reason our region can't similarly benefit,” Boucher said. “The differences in scale compared to Pine Island would have a greater positive impact on our region.” Attendees listen to the speakers during the State of the Cities luncheon Thursday, March 12, at Black Woods in Proctor. Clint Austin / Duluth Media Group Boucher said the data center would not raise electricity rates for residents or businesses because Minnesota law and energy use agreements have rate protections in place. Hermantown is also updating the environmental documents associated with the data center project. “There has been both excitement and apprehension surrounding this possible development,” Boucher said. “Now that Google's involvement is known, a full restart of the AUAR (Alternative Urban Areawide Review) with public concerns in mind will include all who wish to participate in the process.” Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH BUSINESS ECONOMY HERMANTOWN PROCTOR RICE LAKE TOURISM RETAIL By Brielle Zywicki Brielle Zywicki is a business and outdoors reporter for the Duluth News Tribune and Pine Journal. Send her story tips, feedback or just say hi at bzywicki@duluthnews.com. Instagram Facebook Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Business Property Transactions for Oct. 3, 2026 1d ago &#183; By Staff reports Business Bankruptcies for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports Business Scheels accused of age discrimination in federal lawsuit 4d ago &#183; By April Baumgarten ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.