Short-term rental study recommendations for Duluth released - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Short-term rental study recommendations for Duluth released By WDIO --> (File, WDIO) In Brief Duluth city staff completed a study on short-term rental rules and presented four major recommendations to the City Council Proposed changes would prohibit converting single-family homes to short-term rentals and set new limits for rentals in new developments The City Council will review these recommendations and may update regulations before the current moratorium ends in October 2026 Duluth city staff have finished a yearlong study on short-term rental regulations and shared new recommendations with the City Council as the permit moratorium nears its October 2026 end. RELATED: A talk with Mayor Roger Reinert regarding VRBO moratorium According to city officials, the study reviewed how short-term rentals are regulated and enforced in Duluth, highlighting confusion caused by inconsistent rules and unnecessary burdens on city staff. The review also focused on broader goals like preventing the loss of single-family homes for long-term residents, reducing over-concentration of rentals in neighborhoods, and improving enforcement against illegal rentals. The recommendations were presented to the City Council. Refocusing where and how short-term rentals are allowed City staff recommended eliminating the cap on short-term rentals and instead regulating the types of structures and situations where rentals are allowed. This includes prohibiting the converting of existing single-family homes to short-term rentals. Homeowners could operate rentals in accessory dwelling units, like detached tiny homes, if they live in the main house. Homesharing would be allowed in owner-occupied homes, and new developments could include rentals, but only up to 10 percent of units. Clarifying lodging categories The recommendations call for clearer definitions between short-term rentals, hotels, motels and bed and breakfasts to reduce confusion and prevent misuse of lodging classifications. Strengthening enforcement and updating licenses City staff suggested using technology and more resources to better identify and enforce against illegal short-term rentals. They also proposed a pathway for previously licensed vacation rentals to apply for new licenses under the updated rules. The City says these actions are meant to stop the conversion of existing homes into rentals, allow limited new rentals with clear standards, and improve the city’s ability to enforce the rules. The Duluth City Council will review and debate these recommendations in the coming months, with any changes to be considered before the moratorium expires in October 2026. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council housing --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed