Cheers and jeers as Mayor Reinert delivers third State of the City speech - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Cheers and jeers as Mayor Reinert delivers third State of the City speech By WDIO --> Mayor delivers Duluth State of the City address Duluth's Mayor Roger Reinert delivered his third state of the city address, laying out several challenges the city faces. Mayor Roger J. Reinert delivered the State of the City address on March 24, 2026, outlining Duluth’s progress and ongoing challenges. Reinert cited five big issues for Duluth; housing at all income levers, growing the city's commercial tax base, streets and utilities, Downtown Duluth, and affordable property taxes. Facing a large budget deficit this year, the Mayor told reporters it'll be a difficult year financially, particularly after facing an even larger deficit the year before. All the low hanging fruit has been plucked. That was used up last year. The decisions that have to be made this year have to be reduction in services, reduction in staff, or significant property tax increases. And I know how the community feels about property tax increase," he said, speaking to reporters. A large percentage of the address was spent discussing budget challenges, and explaining the strains on the city's coffers, such as mounting deferred maintenance, increasing staffing costs, and aging infrastructure. All costs he described as "sobering." During his speech, the Mayor was interrupted by protestors nearly half a dozen times, leading to shouting from audience members. Many of the protestors questioned the Mayor's role in allegations of whistleblower retaliation, as detailed in a recently filed lawsuit by a former member of the Duluth Police Department. Outside of Lincoln Park Middle School, where the speech was held, a handful of locals were picketing, and calling for the Mayor's recall, citing the case. "We'll see what happens there," said protestor Andrew St. Croix, "But also at the same time with other investigations that have happened in the past is a bit of the fox guarding the hen house as we've seen in other layers of this city government." St. Croix was not among the protestors who interrupted the Mayor's speech. Those who did were escorted out by police officers, and all left the auditorium peacefully. The city has not commented on the lawsuit, but the Mayor described the disruptions to his speech "concerning" "I think it's a reflection of the era that we're living in," he said, "I will say again, it's behavior that we see modeled at other levels of government. And it's a reflection of where our nation is at. We're incredibly divided." During his remarks, Mayor Reinert also laid out the challenge of housing in the city. Duluth needs 9,000 new housing units in the next 10 years to support population growth and workforce needs, according to a 2025 study. He did note that almost 800 housing units have been added in the last two years, with other projects underway. To help with the budget challenges, the Mayor also spoke on the need to grow commercial tax revenue. He explained that commercial property pays about two-thirds of the city’s bills, and when it does not grow, more is needed from residents, leading to property tax increases. On the note of expansion, he pointed to manufacturing sector growth, including the $300 million Sofidel expansion, and said Atlas Business Park is nearly full. Another challenge the Mayor detailed is aging infrastructure, saying the city is responsible for maintaining 477 miles of roads and 500 miles each of water and sewer lines, many of which were designed for a time when Duluth served a much larger population than it currently has. After finishing, several members of the public were celebrated, with community awards were presented to Danielle Erjavec (Clarence Maddy Award), Donvita Kennedy (Good Neighbor Award) and Sandy Winklesky (Citizen of the Year). RELATED: Mayor Roger Reinert delivers 2025 State of the City address A full replay of the Mayor's remarks can be found below. For Related Stories: Duluth Northern Minnesota Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed