Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert responds to Pretti shooting - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert responds to Pretti shooting By WDIO --> Mayor Roger Reinert (2026) On Sunday, following the fatal shooting of Alex Pretti by federal agents on Saturday , Duluth's Mayor Roger Reinert released a statement. In the statement, he said: "Today, many Duluthians are finding themselves feeling numb, concerned, scared, anxious, and angry, after yet another deadly incident yesterday involving federal authorities in Minneapolis. As a community is grieving for Renee Good, Alex Pretti, their families, and the City of Minneapolis. This shooting happened just a day after hundreds gathered peacefully in Duluth, and thousands marched peacefully in Minneapolis. Showing the world the best of Minnesota. Today, we stand with Minneapolis and with our fellow Minnesotans and join the call to de-escalate federal actions in Minnesota and end Operation Metro Surge. Current federal actions have only served to heighten tensions and increase risks to public safety in communities throughout our state. Duluth is and remains a welcoming city. That value has not changed. We are a Port community and for generations people have come from across the globe to make Duluth their home. That has made us stronger, more vibrant, and more interesting. The focus of City employees is on delivering core city services like public safety, infrastructure, utilities, library and park services. Everyday things that support our community and make a community work. City of Duluth employees do not participate in immigration enforcement. This includes the use of city buildings, facilities, and property. Our responsibility at the local level is to stay focused and continue delivering critical city services for our entire community and everyone who calls Duluth home. During a time that increasingly feels chaotic and unsettling the opportunity, city government has is to provide a sense of normalcy and stability, and to reassure Duluth that city government is the level of government that can be trusted to work. I ask Duluthians to stay safe. Double check information has been verified before resharing it. Remain peaceful. Connect with each other. Care for each other. Be Duluth." Mayor Reinert also released a video to his social media pages, which can be found here . For Related Stories: ICE Enforcement Minnesota Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed