Apparent ICE arrests in Duluth, no confirmation from ICE - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Apparent ICE arrests in Duluth, no confirmation from ICE By WDIO --> Apparent ICE agents make arrests in Duluth's Lakeside neighborhood. (WDIO) A resident of Duluth's Lakeside neighborhood reports that apparent U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers made arrests Thursday morning. A witness, who spoke to WDIO after the arrests, said they were walking their dog around 9:00 AM when they saw men with protective vests and ICE insignia arresting individuals working outside of a home near Gilliat St. and 44th Ave. East. WDIO has been in contact with several organizations working to confirm the arrests. And ICE spokesperson provided WDIO with the following statement: "Due to our operational tempo and the increased interest in our agency, we are not able to research and respond to specifics of routine daily operations for ICE." The Duluth Police Department (DPD) said in a statement that they were not informed or involved with any immigration incidents. “DPD’s public safety response remains the same," said Duluth Police Chief Mike Ceynowa. "Our main priority has been and always will be the safety and security of our community. We weren’t involved in any immigration incidents and weren’t informed of actions occurring in our community.” Mayor Roger Reinert also provided a statement in response to WDIO's inquiry stating, “We have multiple levels of government in the United States, and each is charged with different responsibilities. At the local level, our city staff continue to be focused on core city services: streets, utilities, and public safety. Local government is not responsible for immigration enforcement." The roofing company whose signage was posted at the home where the arrests happened has declined to comment. WDIO is continuing to work on confirmation of the arrests, how many people were arrested, and why they were arrested. This is an ongoing story that will be updated as more information is obtained. For Related Stories: Duluth immigration --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed