Mayor Roger Reinert highlights challenges ahead as Duluthians head to the polls - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Roger Reinert highlights challenges ahead as Duluthians head to the polls By WDIO --> Mayor Roger Reinert highlights challenges ahead as Duluthians head to the polls Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert applauded the Duluth City Council in their selection of Deb DeLuca to fill the vacant City Council District 2 seat. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert stopped by WDIO on Tuesday, August 12, to promote voters get out for the Minnesota Municipal Primary Election, which includes primaries in Duluth City Council races and the Duluth School Board. "This is small &#8216;d' democracy. You know, this is where we maybe restore faith and trust in the in the democratic form of government," said Mayor Reinert. "I mean these are our friends and neighbors who are willing to step forward and serve in the City Council, serve on the school board—they are likely people you know or somebody you know does." Mayor Reinert voiced an admiration for everyone who got their names on the ballot for this election. "I will just say this is a really tough time to serve. You know, we are seeing more really sharp critical personal kind of comments especially in the online world and, so you know, anyone who is willing to step forward and say I'm willing to try and help do this work I think should be applauded." Reinert continued that the city councilors, specifically, are going to be facing some tough challenges ahead, including playing their part in balancing the budget with a $7.2 million deficit. He also highlighted the critical housing shortage at all of our income levels and the continuing need to grow the tax base so that the city can be more less dependent on state and federal funds for its needs. "People continue to have that conversation about those core city services that we're all concerned about— the condition of our streets, the, you know, almost hundred-year average age of our water and sewer infrastructure, taxes, of course, [and] even with a 0% levy last year, property taxes still can continue to be something that's a challenge for a lot of Duluth residents." The Mayor also said one of the big issues he'd personally like the Council to address, is the future of Lester Park Golf Course. "We continue to have this big piece of property sit. We now had a working group that spent all last year coming up with some elements that need to be [put] in a path moving forward &#8211;green space golf, connecting trails ,some food and beverage options, and of course another great opportunity for housing." During his interview, Mayor Reinert also applauded the City Council's recent selection of Deb DeLuca as an interim City Councilor for District 2. "With Deb DeLuca, you have somebody who is an eminently qualified leader — a career of public service, most recently, of course ,leading the port and the port has been firing on all cylinders. You have somebody who understands public &#8211;who understands government &#8211;who understands budgets." RELATED: Deb DeLuca selected to fill District 2 Duluth City Council seat For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed