Mayor Roger Reinert recommends new maximum property tax levy - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayor Roger Reinert recommends new maximum property tax levy By WDIO --> Mayor Roger Reinert recommends new maximum property tax levy Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team UPDATE: On Thursday evening, Mayor Roger Reinert went into more detail about the proposed maximum levy. He said high inflation and interest rates, as well as record high fuel costs, are among the factors contributing to the city’s financial woes. Other factors include tariff wars limiting Canadian visitors and flat local government aid. Reinert said he was proud of the city for finding ways to balance the proposed budget, despite the $5.5 million budget deficit. The recommended total property tax levy is 3.65%, resulting in a net levy impact of 2.65% when the 1.98% city growth is accounted for. “That’s a levy that is less than a year and it’s a levy that is less than inflation,” Reinert said. “It also means that for the third year running, Duluth will have the lowest net levy of anyone in our peer group.” That peer group includes Rochester, St. Cloud, Minneapolis and St. Louis County. The city balanced the budget using a handful of strategies while avoiding layoffs and cutting essential services, including reducing fire department overtime by hiring three additional firefighters, reducing the size of a contingency fund that wasn’t fully used and reducing full time positions that were unfilled. Councilmember Arik Forsman said he was impressed that the staff managed to “find extra beans” and balance the budget, but said a “tidal wave” is coming. He theorized that if Duluth’s population growth continues to lag, the city could see a 50% increase in property taxes in the next decade. He called the city’s situation unsustainable and said the tax base needs to grow. “Otherwise, the only other controls we have is to raise taxes or to cut people, or both, more than likely,” he said. During a financial presentation on the proposed budget, staff said Duluth will receive the largest fraction of its general fund revenue from local government aid. The next largest sources are property and sales taxes. Together, those three sources account for 70% of the city’s income. Meanwhile, salaries and wages account for the majority of the city’s general fund expenses. Over time, Reinert said the city is still facing a structural deficit. “We need to really lobby hard at the state for an increase in local government aid,” Reinert said. “That's our largest source of revenue in the budget and has remained flat since 2023.” Reinerty said if local government aid had kept pace with inflation, it would have balanced the budget when combined with the recommended levy. ORIGINAL POST: Mayor Roger Reinert is recommending a maximum property tax levy to members of the Duluth City Council. If the levy is adopted it will result in an average increase of 1.77% during Reinert’s term as mayor. Reinert’s proposal would raise the City of Duluth portion of 2027 property taxes at 2.65%. That's lower than last year’s 2.7% proposal and below the trailing 12-month Consumer Price Index for inflation. The total maximum levy of 3.61% includes 0.96% new growth in the tax base and removes a 0.75% addition made by the City Council last year. Reinert said expenses, mainly compensation and benefits, are rising at 6% each year while revenue is only growing at 1.5%, leading to ongoing budget deficits. “Affordability is an issue for the City too,” Reinert said. “Inflation, tariffs, and high fuel prices are serious cost factors in the City budget.” Reinert said the city’s five strategic priorities are housing at all income levels, growing the commercial tax base, investing in streets and utilities, reviving downtown and affordable city property taxes. “Our mission is effective and efficient core city services at a tax rate our residents and businesses can both afford and sustain,” Reinert said. “Our community is older than average and less wealthy than average. Property taxes don’t care about ability to pay. We can’t look to solve ongoing budget deficits at the expense of our residential property taxpayers.” Additional budget strategies include continuing to evaluate every revenue and expense line-item to ensure accurate budgeting. This includes evaluating past employee vacancy savings, adjusting payroll and benefits budgets to reflect actual expenditures. Along with reallocating unused funds, and not increasing overall FTEs. “The City is employing several strategies to keep our max levy the lowest amongst our peers,” Reinert said. “We’re focusing on core city services, and on being good stewards of money with which we’ve already been entrusted.” City Administrator Karla Culhane said there are some highlights for residents even in a tough budget. “We are fully funding a blight mitigation specialist to help improve neighborhood quality of life issues. We’re moving operational expenses out of the dedicated park levy in order to allocate more of those dollars to park maintenance and improvements,” Culhane said. “These are projects of $50,000 or less across our community. Things like fixing a fence, installing a vault toilet, or repaving a parking lot. Small, but beneficial to residents.” Culhane added that the city also plans to spend about $1,000,000 on small-scale park improvements. City Councilors are meeting Thursday Sept. 10th and must vote on the maximum levy by September 30th. The final city budget vote will be on December 31st. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Roger Reinert Tax --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed