Duluth tenants push petition for ‘right to repair’ rules - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth tenants push petition for ‘right to repair’ rules A group of renters is voicing frustration over delayed fixes, while landlords warn that a proposed new ordinance could have unintended consequences. The Duluth Tenants group rallies in support of renters’ rights outside City Hall on Oct. 30. Peter Passi / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi May 06, 2025 at 1:18 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — A group of tenants has had it with procrastinating landlords who don’t address repairs, so they’ve organized a campaign to empower renters to take matters into their own hands. To date, Duluth Tenants organizers have collected more than 3,200 signatures on a petition in support of Duluth adopting a “right to repair” ordinance similar to policies enacted in more than 30 other jurisdictions, including Chicago. ADVERTISEMENT If their campaign proves successful, Duluth could become the first Minnesota city to pass such a rule. Local landlords are pushing back, however, warning of liability concerns and the chilling effect it could have on people choosing to offer property for rent. They also argue the ordinance is unneeded, given other existing avenues for recourse. Two community members look at the view from a fifth-floor unit available for rent at One Roof Community Housing's new Brewery Creek apartments in Duluth's East Hillside neighborhood Sept. 23. Wyatt Buckner / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group Nasseem Farahid, a member of Duluth Tenants, disagrees and recently shared a story of a neglected leak in a rental unit he previously called home. He noticed a leak in his kitchen ceiling and reported the issue to his landlord. But after three weeks of requests, the damage continued to worsen as his calls went ignored. Local RELATED: More affordable housing heads to West Duluth A new 60-unit apartment building is going up in Spirit Valley, and 30 more units are being constructed next door to replace the outdated Memorial Park Apartments building. Apr 30, 2025 &#183; By Peter Passi One morning, while preparing an omelet before heading to work at a local hospital, Farahid said his kitchen ceiling collapsed. “I was shocked and infuriated,” he recalled, first because his warnings had gone unheeded and secondly because his breakfast was now full of wet ceiling debris. “I was lucky that I wasn’t hurt. All of us deserve safe and dignified homes," he said. Duluth Tenants already appears well on its way to getting a referendum in support of a “right to repair” ordinance on the ballot in November. The city charter requires a petition signed by a number of local residents equal to at least 10% of the voter turnout in the last general municipal election. For Duluth, that would make 2023 the reference point, when 29,295 voters cast ballots in the mayoral race. ADVERTISEMENT While Duluth Tenants appears to have surpassed the required threshold already, door-to-door efforts continue. The group hopes to collect 5,000 signatures before the petition is submitted by mid-June, said organizer DyAnna Grondahl. At the end of the day, I at least want to know that I can have a hot shower, and right now, I don’t have that. Cody Pals, member of Duluth Tenants The group’s path recently drew criticism from Matt Baumgartner, president of the Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. Speaking at a City Council meeting April 28, Baumgartner suggested Duluth Tenants is setting “a dangerous precedent” in choosing to bypass local elected officials, who usually craft and adopt local ordinances. He called the petition drive “a fundamental threat to representative democracy.” Grondahl takes a different view. “We think the people closest to the problem are closest to the solution," she said. Business RELATED: Ordean Building to become 30-unit workforce housing incubator Titanium Partners is transforming the former nonprofit office space into a coffee shop, wine bar and midterm rentals, with new residents likely moving in by July. Apr 2, 2025 &#183; By Brielle Zywicki While 3rd District Councilor Roz Randorf expressed sympathy for the plight of renters who, at times, have struggled to see needed repairs made to their homes, she contends that current systems provide adequate recourse. Randorf pointed to tenants’ ability to file a Rent Escrow Action or an Emergency Tenant Remedies Action in court and also advised people to turn to the Tenant Landlord Connection as a local resource to resolve problems. In a recent statement of her position, Randorf wrote: “No one should have to fight for the right to a safe and livable home. Fortunately, no additional ordinances are needed because Minnesota’s tenant protection statutes give renters the legal backing they need to demand timely, essential repairs.” Grondahl counters that renters would benefit from access to more common-sense, straightforward remedies, such as those that would be offered through a “right to repair” ordinance. ADVERTISEMENT Here’s how the proposed ordinance would work: Tenants would notify their landlord of a needed repair and of their intent to seek repairs themselves if the problem is not addressed within 14 days. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert, right, looks at a second-floor unit at the new Skyridge Flats apartments during a tour Feb. 5. Dan Williamson / File / Duluth Media Group If that period passes without any repair being scheduled, they could proceed to hire out the work themselves. The tenant could then submit a receipt for the repair to their landlord for reimbursement or a reduction in rent, up to a maximum of $500 or half a month’s rent, whichever is larger. Local ALSO READ: Hermantown mobile home lawsuit appears poised to settle Faced with a threatened contempt-of-court charge, the park's owner is offering to help displaced residents relocate. Apr 8, 2025 &#183; By Peter Passi Retaliation against a tenant for pursuing repairs could not be used as grounds for any retaliation, and disputes over the necessity of repairs could be referred to a city building official. While the policy sounds reasonable at first blush, Mike Anders, a regional sales coordinator for Aflac, a national insurer, wrote to city councilors: “This ordinance risks creating confusion, conflict and liability without actually solving a problem.” Grondahl stressed that tenants would be required to hire licensed, qualified individuals to make any repairs, reducing any potential liability concerns. ADVERTISEMENT But Baumgartner also suggested the proposed ordinance could discourage landlords. “By imposing additional costs, risks and administrative burdens, particularly on small mom-and-pop landlords, we risk accelerating the exit of local property owners from the rental market,” he said. “Enacting a policy like this would reduce the overall supply of rental housing in Duluth at a time when we can least afford it,” Baumgartner warned councilors. read more House District 8B candidates debate housing, climate change, downtown 5d ago How life insurance fits into your financial planning Sep 24 Nettleton Elementary School to become Athlétis Apartments Sep 18 Maddy Thomas, an active member of Duluth Tenants, said she was “sick and tired of living in ‘substandard conditions.’ ” She suggested the ordinance could lead to needed improvements and the preservation of the local aged rental housing stock, noting that more than half of Duluth rentals were built before 1940. Cody Pals, another member of Duluth Tenants, said he has not had a decent working shower for two years in his rental unit. Initially, the pressure was so weak that the flow from his showerhead was no more than a dribble, and when repairs were made to improve the pressure, Pals said the water temperature slid to lukewarm. “At the end of the day, I at least want to know that I can have a hot shower, and right now, I don’t have that,” he said. While Pals referred to the city’s life safety department and the Tenant Landlord Connection as useful tools, he said: “They are not enough and are not always a good fit to make sure renters get repairs done in a timely manner.” ADVERTISEMENT Grondahl noted that many responsible local landlords already are addressing needed repairs and will see little change if the proposed “right to repair” ordinance is adopted. Dennette Lynch, who owns a duplex in West Duluth, remains unconvinced, claiming landlords already face a formidable thicket of regulations. In a recent letter to councilors, she suggested there would be no winners. “These and other requirements all increase the cost of rental housing,” she said. “It all raises the cost of providing housing and therefore rental rates.” more by peter passi Local Don Ness sees nonprofit leadership role as 'dream job' At 52, the former Duluth mayor says he's satisfied to serve his community in a different way. May 20 &#183; By Peter Passi Local Court upholds ruling against Spirit Mountain in coaster injury lawsuit May 4 &#183; By Peter Passi Local St. Louis County replants forest in fire’s wake May 2 &#183; By Peter Passi Subscribers Only Local Opponents again sue Hermantown over proposed data center Apr 29 &#183; By Peter Passi Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH HOUSING GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 4h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.