Duluth mayor shares more about vision for a more vibrant downtown - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth mayor shares more about vision for a more vibrant downtown By WDIO --> Mayor weighs in on what will help revitalize downtown Duluth Transition for downtown Duluth will mean bringing in more residential and small businesses. City leaders in Duluth are focusing on boosting downtown housing and business growth. Mayor Roger Reinert weighed in, after speaking at the Downtown Duluth dinner last week. There are long term goals, but also some short term solutions. "I really challenged everybody in the room. And I asked, what can you do on your block? What can you do to make it cleaner? What can you do to fix something? What can you do to make it more active? What can you do to make it more vibrant? You can't wait for the other. You have to take action on your block," he said. The transition from office workers to housing is going to be a challenge, but that's what Reinert sees happening. He'd like to see more mid-market ownership opportunities, like condos. Also, small businesses who are consistently bringing customers downtown are supporting the vibe. Reinert said an idea to promote more of that is to create an incubator type space for entrepreneurs. He credits partners like Union Gospel Mission for helping make an impact when addressing homelessness in the community. The city is discussing the skywalk on Monday. Here's more about that: https://www.wdio.com/front-page/top-stories/why-is-so-much-of-duluths-skywalk-empty-council-digs-into-the-details/ For Related Stories: Business Duluth housing --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed