Continuing the discussion of the state of Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Continuing the discussion of the state of Duluth Amanda Eke WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5169257&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Duluth Mayoral Candidate Roger Reinert invited Duluthians to join him for a conversation on the state of our City tonight, Wednesday March 23 rd . He spoke in great detail of where Duluth is, where Duluth needs to be headed, and how we get there. Reinert has made it clear the sharp contrast between Mayor Larson’s vision and his starts with their assessment of where Duluth is at. He has stated that he has had several small group conversations since campaign work has begun in January and feels Duluthians are concerned. He doubled down on that sentiment again tonight. “I heard last night that the state of our city is strong and growing stronger. Duluth that is not what you are telling me or what you are sharing with each other. My friends, the state of our city is serious,” said Reinert. Reinert spoke greatly on the need to make better public spaces for all in Duluth. “Neighborhood parks and recreation spaces. Youth hockey. Mental health and criminal justice. Active outdoor activities for adults. Homelessness. Public safety. The condition of downtown Duluth. Access to housing for all income levels. The condition of our streets. Snow removal. Planning and zoning. Permitting and inspections. We need to give Duluth the reputation as a good place to do business,” said Reinert. “There is a growing cultural divide between Duluth and our surrounding region. That's why from the beginning, our focus has been on effective and efficient core city services and making Duluth a better partner,” continued Reinert. Reinert ended the night on a note of action for the community. “My friends, my fellow dilutions. These challenges imposed upon the state of our city is serious. And according to my watch. The time is now,” finished Reinert. Roger Reinert (WDIO) For Related Stories: Duluth Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed