Reinert presents 2025 budget proposal - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Reinert presents 2025 budget proposal By WDIO --> Duluth mayor presents 2025 budget overview Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team City leaders began the process of determining Duluth’s city budget for 2025 on September 9 as Mayor Roger Reinert presented an overview of his budget proposal to city councilors. During his presentation, Mayor Reinert broke down his strategic priorities for the budget, such as affordable property taxes and growing the commercial tax base &#8211; while also addressing budget challenges such as aging infrastructure. The proposal calls for a maximum increase of the property tax levy, that's the total amount the city collects, to be increased by less than 2% or just under $800,000. Mayor Reinert believes the increase will be in line with his promise of giving taxpayers a break when it comes to property tax increases. “it's the start of a conversation and not the end of one, but one that we believe is consistent with a message I've given the community as well as when we think allows us to do our city work as well as make a few key investments.” The mayor said in his presentation. The budget proposal calls for, among other new additions, a pilot program to hire new firefighters in an attempt to combat burnout amongst staff, as well as reduce overtime costs to the city. “I think we're all in agreement that something needs to change. We cannot continue to put our firefighters in this much of a stressful time where they get no time off. They're missing vacation. They're missing time with their families.” Explained Duluth Fire Chief Shawn Krizaj. On September 13, City Councilors will attend an eight hour budget meeting to have the full budget broken down completely. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Taxes --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed