Former state legislator Roger Reinert running for mayor of Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Former state legislator Roger Reinert running for mayor of Duluth By WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5157022&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Standing at the Piedmont Community Center with dozens of supporters behind him, Roger Reinert made it official. He will run for mayor of Duluth. The campaign slogan is "Expect More. Do Better." He said, "We need a culture in city hall that is less, We have all the answers, and more, How do we get to yes?" Reinert has served on the city council and in both houses of the Minnesota legislature. Plus, he's helped the DECC when they needed leadership. And he's a combat veteran, and current officer with the U.S. Naval Reserve. Reinert added that it's been years since a truly contested election, and that it's a win for Duluth to have great candidates. "If it's a tough choice for voters in November, between well-qualified candidates, that's really good for our community." He pledged to stay away from negative campaign tactics. "I'm going to be critical, and that's appropriate in any debate over polices. But this will not be a negative campaign. Nor will it ever be personal." There is a campaign kick-off event on Friday evening at Warrior Brewing, from 4:30-6:30pm. 2711 W Superior Street in Lincoln Park. https://rogerforduluth.com/ Watch the full press conference. [anvplayer video="5157010&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Emily Larson is seeking her third term as mayor. Read Mayor Larson's statement regarding Reinert's announcement. Roger Reinert's full written statement: Reinert Announces as Candidate for Mayor of Duluth Duluth, Mn &#8211; With a campaign slogan of, “Expect More &#8211; Do Better” Former Duluth City Councilor and State Senator, Roger Reinert, announced today that he will be a candidate in the November 2023, election for the next Mayor of Duluth. Reinert launched his campaign with over 50 supporters at the Piedmont Heights Community Club in Duuth’s Piedmont Heights neighborhood. “This will be a community effort, so no better place to start than a neighborhood community club”, he said. Reinert also shared that this location was special. “This was the location of my first ever public meeting, in my first ever run for Duluth City Council. It feels very full circle to me.” In his prepared remarks, Reinert shared three main motivations to run. “Anyone who knows me knows that I love Duluth with a passion, and I am Duluth’s greatest cheerleader. But, our community is facing some serious challenges.” Topping the list Reinert discussed what many Duluthians feel is lack of focus on core city services. “We need city government to do those things that city government must do well &#8211; streets, utilities, public safety. Parks and libraries. Tax base development. Housing. If we don’t deliver on effective and efficient core city services &#8211; no one else will.” Reinert also said that the City of Duluth must focus on being a better partner. “Too many residents, community organizations, and businesses find it difficult to deal with City Hall.” He elaborated by saying, “We need city leadership that creates a culture where instead of a default response of, ‘No, try again.’ it’s “Let’s talk about how we can make that happen.’” When asked why he had decided to run now after six years away from elected service, Reinert said, “Duluth is long overdue for a meaningful conversation about the Duluth we are, and the Duluth we intend to be.” He said that’s what leadership elections like this one for Mayor are intended to be. “We haven’t had a truly contested Mayoral election since 2007. The election in 2019 saw a low 38% voter turnout. “That’s unhealthy for the civic fabric of our community. That’s not Duluth. A difficult choice in November is a win for Duluth, and a win for democracy.” Reinert also shared that he would be hosting a campaign kickoff event at Warrior Brewing in Duluth’s Lincoln Park neighborhood on January 13th from 4:39-6:30pm. The public is invited to attend. In addition to the opportunity to visit with fellow Duluthians, Reinert said he was eager to highlight Warrior Brewing because of its mission. The brewery was founded by two disabled veterans, and actively seeks opportunities to support other veterans, military, and first responders. “That’s a mission near and dear to my heart,” said Reinert. (WDIO) For Related Stories: Duluth Politics Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed