Mayoral Candidate Roger Reinert shares thoughts on proposed 2024 budget - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Mayoral Candidate Roger Reinert shares thoughts on proposed 2024 budget Nyah Adams WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5189636&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Mayor Emily Larson has released her proposal for the 2024 Duluth city budget. Today, her opponent in the general mayoral race, Roger Reinert sharing his thoughts. Reinert says this budget is something he could work with as mayor. Right out of the gate, he says three out of his five main campaign issues are addressed in this budget. We have the full details on the 2024 proposed budget, here. Reinert adds there are a few key details missing and things that he would do differently. "Where we're really falling short right now is long term care. Right now, our options for long term care with the opioid crisis and related mental health issues is hospital beds in the E.R. and jail cells. Neither of which are effective nor are they affordable. So, you know, you look at something like the San Marco project in Duluth, which is for folks that are struggling with long term alcohol abuse, it is a safe, clean, supportive place to be for those who can't kick their addiction," said Reinert. This wasn't the only issue that Reinert has concerns about. "Another one of the places that I would make different recommendations is especially around the use of our remaining $24 million of American Recovery Act ARPA funds . That is a great use of one time dollars around infrastructure." Another big issue, road construction and repairs. Reinert notes there are nearly 500 miles of Duluth roads and a lot of them need fixing. In Mayor Larson's proposal, she says they would fix 50 miles of roads over the next three years. Reinert says that's not enough and more roads should go through repairs. Another highlight mentioned, housing and especially affordable housing. "Any Duluthian knows that if you have thought about moving and thought about selling, you probably have stayed put. The market is stuck in the middle right now. We've done work on the affordable end of the spectrum, and that's important work. Without really focusing on the middle of the market, what's happening is, those who can afford are over buying and over renting because they have the resources to do it given the stock that's available," said Reinert. Reinert wanted us to mention that this budget is far from being approved. There are still months until the budget is official. He adds that community members should be as involved in the process as possible. For Related Stories: Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed