Reinert relaunches group to explore future of Lester Park Golf Course - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Reinert relaunches group to explore future of Lester Park Golf Course The Duluth mayor expects the panel to present its recommendations by April 1. Duluth’s Lester Park Golf Course in July 2021. Steve Kuchera / File / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi October 02, 2024 at 4:19 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Mayor Roger Reinert is still looking to a citizens’ advisory panel for guidance regarding the future of the Lester Park Golf Course property, four years after it ceased operations. This week, Reinert announced plans to reboot a working group tasked with providing recommendations for what should become of the former golf course. ADVERTISEMENT Reinert had established a working group for the same purpose seven months earlier before pausing for a reboot this week. He said the group “struggled for a variety of reasons and then sort fell apart over the summer.” In taking another look at the issue, Reinert said he sought to bring more people to the table with interests in addition to golf. “How do you incorporate hiking trails, biking trails, cross-country skiing, snowshoeing, birding and disc golf? Those are all things that could happen there. And what is a model that doesn’t involve the city running it?” Reinert asked. He noted that the city closed the golf course after sustaining repeated financial losses there and choosing instead to focus on improving Duluth’s only other municipal golf course at Enger Park to make it self-sustaining. Reinert suggested the window to reopen Lester under a different operating structure is likely limited. The entrance to the Lester Park Golf Course in 2020. Clint Austin / File / Duluth Media Group “If there isn’t a viable alternative future at Lester, we’re heading into yet another year of that place being dormant, and at some point, if there’s not a different future there, we need to acknowledge that,” he said. ADVERTISEMENT Reinert plans to attend a meeting of the new working group at 6 p.m. Monday at the Lakeside-Lester Park Community Center. “I’ll be very direct with the group: You have a big hill to climb," he said. He noted that the golf course has been left to deteriorate for several years now. Nevertheless, Tim Meyer, who will co-chair the Lester Park working group alongside Konner Cooke, said he remains optimistic that golf will return to the property, whether as an 18- or nine-hole course. ALSO READ Buckingham Creek restoration near completion Oct 2, 2024 He noted that much of the study has gone into assessing the opportunities at Lester. But Meyer said the original group may have been too golf-focused for the mayor’s taste. “I think the mayor felt the initial steering committee that we had put together did not include the right kind of representation that he wanted to see in terms of the number of recreation groups represented," he said. "So, we did a little retooling.' The reconfigured group now has 24 members. The entrance to the driving range at the Lester Park Golf Course in 2019. Clint Austin / File / Duluth Media Group Reinert contends a broader vision was needed, as golf is only possible for a portion of the year. As CEO and president of Meyer Group Architecture, Meyer acknowledged the pace of the study has been a departure from what he has experienced and would have expected in the private sector. ADVERTISEMENT “But this is a public process. And the mayor probably put it best when he said: ‘Things are kind of moving at the speed of government,’” Meyer said. “It’s a political process, and we need to make sure the right people are at the table in terms of steering this.” Reinert noted that other city-owned properties, such as Chester Bowl, Hartley Nature Center and Lake Superior Zoo, have enjoyed success with the help of community-led support. MORE ABOUT ROGER REINERT Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% 5d ago Reinert proposes levy increase Sep 11 Judge rules in favor of city on Lester Park Golf Course Aug 13 “So, it’s not impossible. But it is a big hill to climb, for sure,” he said. As the working group looks at recreational opportunities for the former golf course, the Duluth Economic Development Authority continues to explore the opportunities to bring more housing and development to the area. It has partnered with Oppidan Investment Co., an entity interested in developing about a 37-acre parcel of the land , including the Lake Nine portion of the golf course. Reinert said the recent easing of interest rates may bode well for additional development, and that’s potentially good news for a city in desperate need of housing. “I am supportive of tax base development, and we’re looking for housing across all income levels,” he said. Reinert requests that the working group submit its recommendations to city administration by April 1. ADVERTISEMENT also read State seeks to strip Community Action Duluth of funding 3d ago Supporters, critics face off over Duluth school referendum 4d ago Zeleznikar, Schweiger face off in 3B forum 5d ago Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH ROGER REINERT GOLF By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 4h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.