Citizens address City Council over Public Safety Ordinance Proposal - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Citizens address City Council over Public Safety Ordinance Proposal Alex Sapp WDIO --> Duluth City Council discusses proposed city ordinances Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team In a meeting on Monday, June 15, the Duluth City Council read aloud for the first time a package of 10 proposed public safety ordinances. The proposed package was announced last week by Mayor Roger Reinert, along with Fire Chief Shawn Krizaj and Police Chief Mike Ceynowa. The ordinances aim to reduce what Mayor Reinert called “Problem behaviors”. These non-violent crimes include graffiti, property damage, and public camping. The proposal would alter city code to make these misdemeanors, replacing fines in some cases – something that the mayor admits hasn’t worked in the past. “These lack real means for enforcement, real incentives for individuals to consider resource options, other choices, and they often only serve as a financial burden to individuals who already have little or no resources. So, it's no wonder they're not very effective.” Mayor Reinert said Thursday, July 11. In Monday’s council meeting, citizens packed the room to capacity, with over 60 Duluthians signed up to address the city officials. Many who spoke focused on the proposed ordinance against camping on public grounds, some expressing that they believed the ordinance was essentially criminalizing homelessness. “We are talking about human beings. We are talking about hunger, cold and hopelessness. I am baffled that we are also talking about criminalization and penalties that might or might not let us pretend that the problem has improved.” One citizen said, adding that her mother had experienced homelessness. Still others stated they backed the proposed ordinances, saying that it was a matter of keeping the city safe. “It is not something to say: ‘It's just in your head that it's unsafe.’ There are nurses that leave the hospital every night in groups of people because of the safety conditions on our streets. I would not let my four ten and a half wife walk our downtown in the evening alone and unaccompanied. It's not safe.” Another citizen said in support. The City Council will read the proposal again at a future meeting before the matter comes to a vote. If passed, the ordinances will come into effect 30 days after being approved. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed