Saved from https://stevehiltonforgovernor.com/policies/3-dollar-gas (rendered page text, built-in browser, 2026-10-07)

POLICY

$3 GAS WITH STEVE HILTON / $8 GAS UNDER THE DEMOCRATS

← POLICY ARCHIVE
$3 GAS WITH STEVE HILTON / $8 GAS UNDER THE DEMOCRATS

California Democrats have prioritized ‘climate’ ideology over affordability, driving out oil refineries, shutting down cleaner in-state oil production, and piling on extreme, unnecessary regulations. As a result, California drivers pay the highest gas prices in the country (now averaging around $5 a gallon), with experts warning prices could rise as high as $8 a gallon. Steve Hilton’s plan would restore common sense environmental regulation, bringing prices down to around $3 a gallon.

BACKGROUND

Gas prices in California are the highest in the country, averaging $4.88 per gallon (AAA). They are higher than in Hawaii, in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, even though California has plentiful oil reserves. And they’re heading even higher. According to USC Business Professor Michael Mische, gas could reach $8 per gallon, driven by refinery shutdowns and burdensome regulation. High gas prices are especially painful for working class Californians, who typically have the longest commutes, and for small business. High gas prices are the direct result of Democrat policies in 15 years of one party rule. It doesn't have to be like this.

DEMOCRAT POLICIES: $8 GAS

Democrats have declared a “war on fossil fuel”, with a stated goal of “net zero” carbon emissions by 2045 - a wildly unrealistic target with an incredibly costly and destructive price tag. Their policies are also chasing refineries out of the state. Valero’s Benicia refinery was crippled by fire. Phillips 66 in L.A. is shutting down. PBF’s Torrance facility is under pressure. Over 25% of California’s refining capacity could be lost in less than a year — a collapse that would cripple fuel access and send prices soaring. And with new California Air Resources Board (CARB) rules potentially adding up to 65 cents per gallon in LCFS costs (Kleinman Center), $8 gas is on the table.

STEVE HILTON’S PLAN: $3 GAS

California’s current average gas price stands at $4.88 per gallon (AAA California Gas Prices). Here’s how the cost breaks down and how Steve Hilton’s plan could move us towards $3:

Eliminate extreme environmental program costs: These add about 54 cents per gallon to gas prices. Removing these programs—including the cap and trade fees tied to gasoline—would immediately cut 54¢.
Suspend the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS), reformulation requirements, and other extreme and unnecessary refinery regulations: These compliance costs add roughly 40 cents per gallon. Cutting these would reduce refinery expenses and thus gas prices by around 40¢.
Eliminate the 60 cents per gallon state excise tax: Currently, California charges 60 cents per gallon in excise taxes, which contribute significantly to prices at the pump. Removing this tax would shave another 60¢ off the cost.
Additional deregulation measures, including immediate steps to increase California oil production and the suspension of enforcement of SBX1-2 and ABX2-1, could reduce prices even further, by up to 25¢ per gallon.

Adding these reductions up:

$4.88 (current price) − $0.54 (environmental programs) − $0.40 (LCFS, reformulation, refinery regs) − $0.60 (excise tax) − $0.25 (additional deregulation measures) = $3.09 per gallon

← Back to all policies
