Assembly Bill No. 2097 CHAPTER 459 An act to amend Section 65585 of, and to add Section 65863.2 to, the Government Code, relating to land use. [ Approved by Governor September 22, 2022. Filed with Secretary of State September 22, 2022. ] LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST AB 2097, Friedman. Residential, commercial, or other development types: parking requirements. The Planning and Zoning Law requires each county and city to adopt a comprehensive, long-term general plan for its physical development, and the development of certain lands outside its boundaries, that includes, among other mandatory elements, a land use element, and a conservation element. Existing law also authorizes the legislative body of a city or a county to adopt ordinances establishing requirements for parking, and permits variances to be granted from the parking requirements of a zoning ordinance for nonresidential development if the variance will be an incentive to the development and the variance will facilitate access to the development by patrons of public transit facilities. This bill would prohibit a public agency from imposing any minimum automobile parking requirement on any residential, commercial, or other development project, as defined, that is located within 1/2 mile of public transit, as defined. The bill, notwithstanding the above-described prohibition, would authorize a city, county, or city and county to impose or enforce minimum automobile parking requirements on a housing development project if the public agency makes written findings, within 30 days of the receipt of a completed application, that not imposing or enforcing minimum automobile parking requirements on the development would have a substantially negative impact, supported by a preponderance of the evidence in the record, on the public agency’s ability to meet its share of specified housing needs or existing residential or commercial parking within 1/2 mile of the housing development. The bill would create an exception from the above-described provision if the housing development project (1) dedicates a minimum of 20% of the total number of housing units to very low, low-, or moderate-income households, students, the elderly, or persons with disabilities, (2) contains fewer than 20 housing units, or (3) is subject to parking reductions based on any other applicable law. The bill would prohibit these provisions from reducing, eliminating, or precluding the enforcement of any requirement imposed on a housing development project that is located within 1/2 mile of public transit to provide electric vehicle supply equipment installed parking spaces or parking spaces that are accessible to persons with disabilities. By changing the duties of local planning officials, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. Existing law also requires the Department of Housing and Community Development to notify a city, county, or city and county, and authorizes the department to notify the office of the Attorney General, that the city, county, or city and county is in violation of state law if the department finds that the housing element or an amendment to the housing element does not substantially comply with specified provisions of the Planning and Zoning Law, or that the local government has taken action or failed to act in violation of specified provisions of law. Existing law authorizes the Attorney General to bring suit for a violation of those provisions. This bill would add a violation of the minimum automobile parking requirements of residential, commercial, or other development projects, as described above, to the list of laws that, when violated, require the department to notify the jurisdiction and authorize the Attorney General to bring an action to enforce state law. The bill would include findings that changes proposed by this bill address a matter of statewide concern rather than a municipal affair and, therefore, apply to all cities, including charter cities. This bill would incorporate additional changes to Section 65585 of the Government Code proposed by AB 2011 and AB 2653 to be operative only if this bill and AB 2011 or AB 2653, or all 3 bills, are enacted and this bill is enacted last. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason. DIGEST KEY Vote: majority Appropriation: no Fiscal Committee: yes Local Program: yes BILL TEXT THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS: SECTION 1. Section 65585 of the Government Code is amended to read: 65585. (a) In the preparation of its housing element, each city and county shall consider the guidelines adopted by the department pursuant to Section 50459 of the Health and Safety Code. Those guidelines shall be advisory to each city or county in the preparation of its housing element. (b) (1) At least 90 days prior to adoption of a revision of its housing element pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588, or at least 60 days prior to the adoption of a subsequent amendment to this element, the planning agency shall submit a draft element revision or draft amendment to the department. The local government of the planning agency shall make the first draft revision of a housing element available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if any comments are received, the local government shall take at least 10 business days after the 30-day public comment period to consider and incorporate public comments into the draft revision prior to submitting it to the department. For any subsequent draft revision, the local government shall post the draft revision on its internet website and shall email a link to the draft revision to all individuals and organizations that have previously requested notices relating to the local government’s housing element at least seven days before submitting the draft revision to the department. (2) The planning agency staff shall collect and compile the public comments regarding the housing element received by the city, county, or city and county, and provide these comments to each member of the legislative body before it adopts the housing element. (3) The department shall review the draft and report its written findings to the planning agency within 90 days of its receipt of the first draft submittal for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 or within 60 days of its receipt of a subsequent draft amendment or an adopted revision or adopted amendment to an element. The department shall not review the first draft submitted for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 until the local government has made the draft available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if comments were received, has taken at least 10 business days to consider and incorporate public comments pursuant to paragraph (1). (c) In the preparation of its findings, the department may consult with any public agency, group, or person. The department shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person regarding the draft or adopted element or amendment under review. (d) In its written findings, the department shall determine whether the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article. (e) Prior to the adoption of its draft element or draft amendment, the legislative body shall consider the findings made by the department. If the department’s findings are not available within the time limits set by this section, the legislative body may act without them. (f) If the department finds that the draft element or draft amendment does not substantially comply with this article, the legislative body shall take one of the following actions: (1) Change the draft element or draft amendment to substantially comply with this article. (2) Adopt the draft element or draft amendment without changes. The legislative body shall include in its resolution of adoption written findings which explain the reasons the legislative body believes that the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article despite the findings of the department. (g) Promptly following the adoption of its element or amendment, the planning agency shall submit a copy to the department. (h) The department shall, within 90 days, review adopted housing elements or amendments and report its findings to the planning agency. (i) (1) (A) The department shall review any action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county that it determines is inconsistent with an adopted housing element or Section 65583, including any failure to implement any program actions included in the housing element pursuant to Section 65583. The department shall issue written findings to the city, county, or city and county as to whether the action or failure to act substantially complies with this article, and provide a reasonable time no longer than 30 days for the city, county, or city and county to respond to the findings before taking any other action authorized by this section, including the action authorized by subparagraph (B). (B) If the department finds that the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county does not substantially comply with this article, and if it has issued findings pursuant to this section that an amendment to the housing element substantially complies with this article, the department may revoke its findings until it determines that the city, county, or city and county has come into compliance with this article. (2) The department may consult with any local government, public agency, group, or person, and shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person, regarding the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county described in paragraph (1), in determining whether the housing element substantially complies with this article. (j) The department shall notify the city, county, or city and county and may notify the office of the Attorney General that the city, county, or city and county is in violation of state law if the department finds that the housing element or an amendment to this element, or any action or failure to act described in subdivision (i), does not substantially comply with this article or that any local government has taken an action in violation of the following: (1) Housing Accountability Act (Section 65589.5). (2) Section 65863. (3) Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915.) (4) Section 65008. (5) Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (Chapter 654, Statutes of 2019, Sections 65941.1, 65943, and 66300). (6) Section 8899.50. (7) Section 65913.4. (8) Article 11 (commencing with Section 65650). (9) Article 12 (commencing with Section 65660). (10) Section 65913.11. (11) Section 65863.2. (k) Commencing July 1, 2019, prior to the Attorney General bringing any suit for a violation of the provisions identified in subdivision (j) related to housing element compliance and seeking remedies available pursuant to this subdivision, the department shall offer the jurisdiction the opportunity for two meetings in person or via telephone to discuss the violation, and shall provide the jurisdiction written findings regarding the violation. This paragraph does not affect any action filed prior to the effective date of this section. The requirements set forth in this subdivision do not apply to any suits brought for a violation or violations of paragraphs (1) and (3) to (9), inclusive, of subdivision (j). (l) In any action or special proceeding brought by the Attorney General relating to housing element compliance pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), the Attorney General may request, upon a finding of the court that the housing element does not substantially comply with the requirements of this article pursuant to this section, that the court issue an order or judgment directing the jurisdiction to bring its housing element into substantial compliance with the requirements of this article. The court shall retain jurisdiction to ensure that its order or judgment is carried out. If a court determines that the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article, it shall have the same force and effect, for purposes of eligibility for any financial assistance that requires a housing element in substantial compliance and for purposes of any incentives provided under Section 65589.9, as a determination by the department that the housing element substantially complies with this article. (1) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after 12 months, the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment compelling substantial compliance with the requirements of this article, the court shall impose fines on the jurisdiction, which shall be deposited into the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund. Any fine levied pursuant to this paragraph shall be in a minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per month, but shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per month, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3). In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (2) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after three months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, if the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraph (1) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of three. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (3) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment six months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment, the court may impose the following: (A) If the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of six. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (B) The court may order remedies available pursuant to Section 564 of the Code of Civil Procedure, under which the agent of the court may take all governmental actions necessary to bring the jurisdiction’s housing element into substantial compliance pursuant to this article in order to remedy identified deficiencies. The court shall determine whether the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article and, once the court makes that determination, it shall have the same force and effect, for all purposes, as the department’s determination that the housing element substantially complies with this article. An agent appointed pursuant to this paragraph shall have expertise in planning in California. (4) This subdivision does not limit a court’s discretion to apply any and all remedies in an action or special proceeding for a violation of any law identified in subdivision (j). (m) In determining the application of the remedies available under subdivision (l), the court shall consider whether there are any mitigating circumstances delaying the jurisdiction from coming into compliance with state housing law. The court may consider whether a city, county, or city and county is making a good faith effort to come into substantial compliance or is facing substantial undue hardships. (n) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the office of the Attorney General to bring a suit to enforce state law in an independent capacity. The office of the Attorney General may seek all remedies available under law including those set forth in this section. (o) Notwithstanding Sections 11040 and 11042, if the Attorney General declines to represent the department in any action or special proceeding brought pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j) the department may appoint or contract with other counsel for purposes of representing the department in the action or special proceeding. (p) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute of limitations set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 338 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to any action or special proceeding brought by the Office of the Attorney General or pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), or by the department pursuant to subdivision (o). SEC. 1.1. Section 65585 of the Government Code is amended to read: 65585. (a) In the preparation of its housing element, each city and county shall consider the guidelines adopted by the department pursuant to Section 50459 of the Health and Safety Code. Those guidelines shall be advisory to each city or county in the preparation of its housing element. (b) (1) At least 90 days prior to adoption of a revision of its housing element pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588, or at least 60 days prior to the adoption of a subsequent amendment to this element, the planning agency shall submit a draft element revision or draft amendment to the department. The local government of the planning agency shall make the first draft revision of a housing element available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if any comments are received, the local government shall take at least 10 business days after the 30-day public comment period to consider and incorporate public comments into the draft revision prior to submitting it to the department. For any subsequent draft revision, the local government shall post the draft revision on its internet website and shall email a link to the draft revision to all individuals and organizations that have previously requested notices relating to the local government’s housing element at least seven days before submitting the draft revision to the department. (2) The planning agency staff shall collect and compile the public comments regarding the housing element received by the city, county, or city and county, and provide these comments to each member of the legislative body before it adopts the housing element. (3) The department shall review the draft and report its written findings to the planning agency within 90 days of its receipt of the first draft submittal for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 or within 60 days of its receipt of a subsequent draft amendment or an adopted revision or adopted amendment to an element. The department shall not review the first draft submitted for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 until the local government has made the draft available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if comments were received, has taken at least 10 business days to consider and incorporate public comments pursuant to paragraph (1). (c) In the preparation of its findings, the department may consult with any public agency, group, or person. The department shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person regarding the draft or adopted element or amendment under review. (d) In its written findings, the department shall determine whether the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article. (e) Prior to the adoption of its draft element or draft amendment, the legislative body shall consider the findings made by the department. If the department’s findings are not available within the time limits set by this section, the legislative body may act without them. (f) If the department finds that the draft element or draft amendment does not substantially comply with this article, the legislative body shall take one of the following actions: (1) Change the draft element or draft amendment to substantially comply with this article. (2) Adopt the draft element or draft amendment without changes. The legislative body shall include in its resolution of adoption written findings which explain the reasons the legislative body believes that the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article despite the findings of the department. (g) Promptly following the adoption of its element or amendment, the planning agency shall submit a copy to the department. (h) The department shall, within 90 days, review adopted housing elements or amendments and report its findings to the planning agency. (i) (1) (A) The department shall review any action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county that it determines is inconsistent with an adopted housing element or Section 65583, including any failure to implement any program actions included in the housing element pursuant to Section 65583. The department shall issue written findings to the city, county, or city and county as to whether the action or failure to act substantially complies with this article, and provide a reasonable time no longer than 30 days for the city, county, or city and county to respond to the findings before taking any other action authorized by this section, including the action authorized by subparagraph (B). (B) If the department finds that the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county does not substantially comply with this article, and if it has issued findings pursuant to this section that an amendment to the housing element substantially complies with this article, the department may revoke its findings until it determines that the city, county, or city and county has come into compliance with this article. (2) The department may consult with any local government, public agency, group, or person, and shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person, regarding the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county described in paragraph (1), in determining whether the housing element substantially complies with this article. (j) The department shall notify the city, county, or city and county and may notify the office of the Attorney General that the city, county, or city and county is in violation of state law if the department finds that the housing element or an amendment to this element, or any action or failure to act described in subdivision (i), does not substantially comply with this article or that any local government has taken an action in violation of the following: (1) Housing Accountability Act (Section 65589.5). (2) Section 65863. (3) Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915). (4) Section 65008. (5) Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (Chapter 654, Statutes of 2019, Sections 65941.1, 65943, and 66300). (6) Section 8899.50. (7) Section 65913.4. (8) Article 11 (commencing with Section 65650). (9) Article 12 (commencing with Section 65660). (10) Section 65913.11. (11) Section 65863.2. (12) Chapter 4.1 (commencing with Section 65912.100). (k) Commencing July 1, 2019, prior to the Attorney General bringing any suit for a violation of the provisions identified in subdivision (j) related to housing element compliance and seeking remedies available pursuant to this subdivision, the department shall offer the jurisdiction the opportunity for two meetings in person or via telephone to discuss the violation, and shall provide the jurisdiction written findings regarding the violation. This paragraph does not affect any action filed prior to the effective date of this section. The requirements set forth in this subdivision do not apply to any suits brought for a violation or violations of paragraphs (1) and (3) to (9), inclusive, of subdivision (j). (l) In any action or special proceeding brought by the Attorney General relating to housing element compliance pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), the Attorney General may request, upon a finding of the court that the housing element does not substantially comply with the requirements of this article pursuant to this section, that the court issue an order or judgment directing the jurisdiction to bring its housing element into substantial compliance with the requirements of this article. The court shall retain jurisdiction to ensure that its order or judgment is carried out. If a court determines that the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article, it shall have the same force and effect, for purposes of eligibility for any financial assistance that requires a housing element in substantial compliance and for purposes of any incentives provided under Section 65589.9, as a determination by the department that the housing element substantially complies with this article. (1) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after 12 months, the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment compelling substantial compliance with the requirements of this article, the court shall impose fines on the jurisdiction, which shall be deposited into the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund. Any fine levied pursuant to this paragraph shall be in a minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per month, but shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per month, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3). In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (2) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after three months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, if the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraph (1) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of three. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (3) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment six months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment, the court may impose the following: (A) If the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of six. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (B) The court may order remedies available pursuant to Section 564 of the Code of Civil Procedure, under which the agent of the court may take all governmental actions necessary to bring the jurisdiction’s housing element into substantial compliance pursuant to this article in order to remedy identified deficiencies. The court shall determine whether the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article and, once the court makes that determination, it shall have the same force and effect, for all purposes, as the department’s determination that the housing element substantially complies with this article. An agent appointed pursuant to this paragraph shall have expertise in planning in California. (4) This subdivision does not limit a court’s discretion to apply any and all remedies in an action or special proceeding for a violation of any law identified in subdivision (j). (m) In determining the application of the remedies available under subdivision (l), the court shall consider whether there are any mitigating circumstances delaying the jurisdiction from coming into compliance with state housing law. The court may consider whether a city, county, or city and county is making a good faith effort to come into substantial compliance or is facing substantial undue hardships. (n) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the office of the Attorney General to bring a suit to enforce state law in an independent capacity. The office of the Attorney General may seek all remedies available under law including those set forth in this section. (o) Notwithstanding Sections 11040 and 11042, if the Attorney General declines to represent the department in any action or special proceeding brought pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j) the department may appoint or contract with other counsel for purposes of representing the department in the action or special proceeding. (p) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute of limitations set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 338 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to any action or special proceeding brought by the Office of the Attorney General or pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), or by the department pursuant to subdivision (o). SEC. 1.2. Section 65585 of the Government Code is amended to read: 65585. (a) In the preparation of its housing element, each city and county shall consider the guidelines adopted by the department pursuant to Section 50459 of the Health and Safety Code. Those guidelines shall be advisory to each city or county in the preparation of its housing element. (b) (1) At least 90 days prior to adoption of a revision of its housing element pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588, or at least 60 days prior to the adoption of a subsequent amendment to this element, the planning agency shall submit a draft element revision or draft amendment to the department. The local government of the planning agency shall make the first draft revision of a housing element available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if any comments are received, the local government shall take at least 10 business days after the 30-day public comment period to consider and incorporate public comments into the draft revision prior to submitting it to the department. For any subsequent draft revision, the local government shall post the draft revision on its internet website and shall email a link to the draft revision to all individuals and organizations that have previously requested notices relating to the local government’s housing element at least seven days before submitting the draft revision to the department. (2) The planning agency staff shall collect and compile the public comments regarding the housing element received by the city, county, or city and county, and provide these comments to each member of the legislative body before it adopts the housing element. (3) The department shall review the draft and report its written findings to the planning agency within 90 days of its receipt of the first draft submittal for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 or within 60 days of its receipt of a subsequent draft amendment or an adopted revision or adopted amendment to an element. The department shall not review the first draft submitted for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 until the local government has made the draft available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if comments were received, has taken at least 10 business days to consider and incorporate public comments pursuant to paragraph (1). (c) In the preparation of its findings, the department may consult with any public agency, group, or person. The department shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person regarding the draft or adopted element or amendment under review. (d) In its written findings, the department shall determine whether the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article. (e) Prior to the adoption of its draft element or draft amendment, the legislative body shall consider the findings made by the department. If the department’s findings are not available within the time limits set by this section, the legislative body may act without them. (f) If the department finds that the draft element or draft amendment does not substantially comply with this article, the legislative body shall take one of the following actions: (1) Change the draft element or draft amendment to substantially comply with this article. (2) Adopt the draft element or draft amendment without changes. The legislative body shall include in its resolution of adoption written findings which explain the reasons the legislative body believes that the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article despite the findings of the department. (g) Promptly following the adoption of its element or amendment, the planning agency shall submit a copy to the department. (h) The department shall, within 90 days, review adopted housing elements or amendments and report its findings to the planning agency. (i) (1) (A) The department shall review any action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county that it determines is inconsistent with an adopted housing element or Section 65583, including any failure to implement any program actions included in the housing element pursuant to Section 65583. The department shall issue written findings to the city, county, or city and county as to whether the action or failure to act substantially complies with this article, and provide a reasonable time no longer than 30 days for the city, county, or city and county to respond to the findings before taking any other action authorized by this section, including the action authorized by subparagraph (B). (B) If the department finds that the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county does not substantially comply with this article, and if it has issued findings pursuant to this section that an amendment to the housing element substantially complies with this article, the department may revoke its findings until it determines that the city, county, or city and county has come into compliance with this article. (2) The department may consult with any local government, public agency, group, or person, and shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person, regarding the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county described in paragraph (1), in determining whether the housing element substantially complies with this article. (j) The department shall notify the city, county, or city and county and may notify the office of the Attorney General that the city, county, or city and county is in violation of state law if the department finds that the housing element or an amendment to this element, or any action or failure to act described in subdivision (i), does not substantially comply with this article or that any local government has taken an action in violation of the following: (1) Housing Accountability Act (Section 65589.5). (2) Section 65863. (3) Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915). (4) Section 65008. (5) Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (Chapter 654, Statutes of 2019, Sections 65941.1, 65943, and 66300). (6) Section 8899.50. (7) Section 65913.4. (8) Article 11 (commencing with Section 65650). (9) Article 12 (commencing with Section 65660). (10) Section 65913.11. (11) Section 65400. (12) Section 65863.2. (k) Commencing July 1, 2019, prior to the Attorney General bringing any suit for a violation of the provisions identified in subdivision (j) related to housing element compliance and seeking remedies available pursuant to this subdivision, the department shall offer the jurisdiction the opportunity for two meetings in person or via telephone to discuss the violation, and shall provide the jurisdiction written findings regarding the violation. This paragraph does not affect any action filed prior to the effective date of this section. The requirements set forth in this subdivision do not apply to any suits brought for a violation or violations of paragraphs (1) and (3) to (9), inclusive, of subdivision (j). (l) In any action or special proceeding brought by the Attorney General relating to housing element compliance pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), the Attorney General may request, upon a finding of the court that the housing element does not substantially comply with the requirements of this article pursuant to this section, that the court issue an order or judgment directing the jurisdiction to bring its housing element into substantial compliance with the requirements of this article. The court shall retain jurisdiction to ensure that its order or judgment is carried out. If a court determines that the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article, it shall have the same force and effect, for purposes of eligibility for any financial assistance that requires a housing element in substantial compliance and for purposes of any incentives provided under Section 65589.9, as a determination by the department that the housing element substantially complies with this article. (1) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after 12 months, the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment compelling substantial compliance with the requirements of this article, the court shall impose fines on the jurisdiction, which shall be deposited into the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund. Any fine levied pursuant to this paragraph shall be in a minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per month, but shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per month, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3). In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (2) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after three months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, if the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraph (1) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of three. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (3) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment six months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment, the court may impose the following: (A) If the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of six. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (B) The court may order remedies available pursuant to Section 564 of the Code of Civil Procedure, under which the agent of the court may take all governmental actions necessary to bring the jurisdiction’s housing element into substantial compliance pursuant to this article in order to remedy identified deficiencies. The court shall determine whether the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article and, once the court makes that determination, it shall have the same force and effect, for all purposes, as the department’s determination that the housing element substantially complies with this article. An agent appointed pursuant to this paragraph shall have expertise in planning in California. (4) This subdivision does not limit a court’s discretion to apply any and all remedies in an action or special proceeding for a violation of any law identified in subdivision (j). (m) In determining the application of the remedies available under subdivision (l), the court shall consider whether there are any mitigating circumstances delaying the jurisdiction from coming into compliance with state housing law. The court may consider whether a city, county, or city and county is making a good faith effort to come into substantial compliance or is facing substantial undue hardships. (n) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the office of the Attorney General to bring a suit to enforce state law in an independent capacity. The office of the Attorney General may seek all remedies available under law including those set forth in this section. (o) Notwithstanding Sections 11040 and 11042, if the Attorney General declines to represent the department in any action or special proceeding brought pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j) the department may appoint or contract with other counsel for purposes of representing the department in the action or special proceeding. (p) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute of limitations set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 338 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to any action or special proceeding brought by the Office of the Attorney General or pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), or by the department pursuant to subdivision (o). SEC. 1.3. Section 65585 of the Government Code is amended to read: 65585. (a) In the preparation of its housing element, each city and county shall consider the guidelines adopted by the department pursuant to Section 50459 of the Health and Safety Code. Those guidelines shall be advisory to each city or county in the preparation of its housing element. (b) (1) At least 90 days prior to adoption of a revision of its housing element pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588, or at least 60 days prior to the adoption of a subsequent amendment to this element, the planning agency shall submit a draft element revision or draft amendment to the department. The local government of the planning agency shall make the first draft revision of a housing element available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if any comments are received, the local government shall take at least 10 business days after the 30-day public comment period to consider and incorporate public comments into the draft revision prior to submitting it to the department. For any subsequent draft revision, the local government shall post the draft revision on its internet website and shall email a link to the draft revision to all individuals and organizations that have previously requested notices relating to the local government’s housing element at least seven days before submitting the draft revision to the department. (2) The planning agency staff shall collect and compile the public comments regarding the housing element received by the city, county, or city and county, and provide these comments to each member of the legislative body before it adopts the housing element. (3) The department shall review the draft and report its written findings to the planning agency within 90 days of its receipt of the first draft submittal for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 or within 60 days of its receipt of a subsequent draft amendment or an adopted revision or adopted amendment to an element. The department shall not review the first draft submitted for each housing element revision pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 65588 until the local government has made the draft available for public comment for at least 30 days and, if comments were received, has taken at least 10 business days to consider and incorporate public comments pursuant to paragraph (1). (c) In the preparation of its findings, the department may consult with any public agency, group, or person. The department shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person regarding the draft or adopted element or amendment under review. (d) In its written findings, the department shall determine whether the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article. (e) Prior to the adoption of its draft element or draft amendment, the legislative body shall consider the findings made by the department. If the department’s findings are not available within the time limits set by this section, the legislative body may act without them. (f) If the department finds that the draft element or draft amendment does not substantially comply with this article, the legislative body shall take one of the following actions: (1) Change the draft element or draft amendment to substantially comply with this article. (2) Adopt the draft element or draft amendment without changes. The legislative body shall include in its resolution of adoption written findings which explain the reasons the legislative body believes that the draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with this article despite the findings of the department. (g) Promptly following the adoption of its element or amendment, the planning agency shall submit a copy to the department. (h) The department shall, within 90 days, review adopted housing elements or amendments and report its findings to the planning agency. (i) (1) (A) The department shall review any action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county that it determines is inconsistent with an adopted housing element or Section 65583, including any failure to implement any program actions included in the housing element pursuant to Section 65583. The department shall issue written findings to the city, county, or city and county as to whether the action or failure to act substantially complies with this article, and provide a reasonable time no longer than 30 days for the city, county, or city and county to respond to the findings before taking any other action authorized by this section, including the action authorized by subparagraph (B). (B) If the department finds that the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county does not substantially comply with this article, and if it has issued findings pursuant to this section that an amendment to the housing element substantially complies with this article, the department may revoke its findings until it determines that the city, county, or city and county has come into compliance with this article. (2) The department may consult with any local government, public agency, group, or person, and shall receive and consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person, regarding the action or failure to act by the city, county, or city and county described in paragraph (1), in determining whether the housing element substantially complies with this article. (j) The department shall notify the city, county, or city and county and may notify the office of the Attorney General that the city, county, or city and county is in violation of state law if the department finds that the housing element or an amendment to this element, or any action or failure to act described in subdivision (i), does not substantially comply with this article or that any local government has taken an action in violation of the following: (1) Housing Accountability Act (Section 65589.5). (2) Section 65863. (3) Chapter 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915). (4) Section 65008. (5) Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (Chapter 654, Statutes of 2019, Sections 65941.1, 65943, and 66300). (6) Section 8899.50. (7) Section 65913.4. (8) Article 11 (commencing with Section 65650). (9) Article 12 (commencing with Section 65660). (10) Section 65913.11. (11) Section 65400. (12) Section 65863.2. (13) Chapter 4.1 (commencing with Section 65912.100) (k) Commencing July 1, 2019, prior to the Attorney General bringing any suit for a violation of the provisions identified in subdivision (j) related to housing element compliance and seeking remedies available pursuant to this subdivision, the department shall offer the jurisdiction the opportunity for two meetings in person or via telephone to discuss the violation, and shall provide the jurisdiction written findings regarding the violation. This paragraph does not affect any action filed prior to the effective date of this section. The requirements set forth in this subdivision do not apply to any suits brought for a violation or violations of paragraphs (1) and (3) to (9), inclusive, of subdivision (j). (l) In any action or special proceeding brought by the Attorney General relating to housing element compliance pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), the Attorney General may request, upon a finding of the court that the housing element does not substantially comply with the requirements of this article pursuant to this section, that the court issue an order or judgment directing the jurisdiction to bring its housing element into substantial compliance with the requirements of this article. The court shall retain jurisdiction to ensure that its order or judgment is carried out. If a court determines that the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article, it shall have the same force and effect, for purposes of eligibility for any financial assistance that requires a housing element in substantial compliance and for purposes of any incentives provided under Section 65589.9, as a determination by the department that the housing element substantially complies with this article. (1) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after 12 months, the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment compelling substantial compliance with the requirements of this article, the court shall impose fines on the jurisdiction, which shall be deposited into the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund. Any fine levied pursuant to this paragraph shall be in a minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per month, but shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per month, except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3). In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (2) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment after three months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Following the status conference, if the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraph (1) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of three. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (3) If the jurisdiction has not complied with the order or judgment six months following the imposition of fees described in paragraph (1), the court shall conduct a status conference. Upon a determination that the jurisdiction failed to comply with the order or judgment, the court may impose the following: (A) If the court finds that the fees imposed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) are insufficient to bring the jurisdiction into compliance with the order or judgment, the court may multiply the fine determined pursuant to paragraph (1) by a factor of six. In the event that the jurisdiction fails to pay fines imposed by the court in full and on time, the court may require the Controller to intercept any available state and local funds and direct such funds to the Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund to correct the jurisdiction’s failure to pay. The intercept of the funds by the Controller for this purpose shall not violate any provision of the California Constitution. (B) The court may order remedies available pursuant to Section 564 of the Code of Civil Procedure, under which the agent of the court may take all governmental actions necessary to bring the jurisdiction’s housing element into substantial compliance pursuant to this article in order to remedy identified deficiencies. The court shall determine whether the housing element of the jurisdiction substantially complies with this article and, once the court makes that determination, it shall have the same force and effect, for all purposes, as the department’s determination that the housing element substantially complies with this article. An agent appointed pursuant to this paragraph shall have expertise in planning in California. (4) This subdivision does not limit a court’s discretion to apply any and all remedies in an action or special proceeding for a violation of any law identified in subdivision (j). (m) In determining the application of the remedies available under subdivision (l), the court shall consider whether there are any mitigating circumstances delaying the jurisdiction from coming into compliance with state housing law. The court may consider whether a city, county, or city and county is making a good faith effort to come into substantial compliance or is facing substantial undue hardships. (n) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the office of the Attorney General to bring a suit to enforce state law in an independent capacity. The office of the Attorney General may seek all remedies available under law including those set forth in this section. (o) Notwithstanding Sections 11040 and 11042, if the Attorney General declines to represent the department in any action or special proceeding brought pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j) the department may appoint or contract with other counsel for purposes of representing the department in the action or special proceeding. (p) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute of limitations set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 338 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to any action or special proceeding brought by the Office of the Attorney General or pursuant to a notice or referral under subdivision (j), or by the department pursuant to subdivision (o). SEC. 2. Section 65863.2 is added to the Government Code, to read: 65863.2. (a) A public agency shall not impose or enforce any minimum automobile parking requirement on a residential, commercial, or other development project if the project is located within one-half mile of public transit. (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a city, county, or city and county may impose or enforce minimum automobile parking requirements on a project that is located within one-half mile of public transit if the public agency makes written findings, within 30 days of the receipt of a completed application, that not imposing or enforcing minimum automobile parking requirements on the development would have a substantially negative impact, supported by a preponderance of the evidence in the record, on any of the following: (1) The city’s, county’s, or city and county’s ability to meet its share of the regional housing need in accordance with Section 65584 for low- and very low income households. (2) The city’s, county’s, or city and county’s ability to meet any special housing needs for the elderly or persons with disabilities identified in the analysis required pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 65583. (3) Existing residential or commercial parking within one-half mile of the housing development project. (c) For a housing development project, subdivision (b) shall not apply if the housing development project satisfies any of the following: (1) The development dedicates a minimum of 20 percent of the total number of housing units to very low, low-, or moderate-income households, students, the elderly, or persons with disabilities. (2) The development contains fewer than 20 housing units. (3) The development is subject to parking reductions based on the provisions of any other applicable law. (d) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), an event center shall provide parking, as required by local ordinance, for employees and other workers. (e) For purposes of this section: (1) “Housing development project” means a housing development project as defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 65589.5. (2) “Low- and very low income households” means the same as “lower income households” as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code. (3) “Moderate-income households” means the same as “persons and families of moderate income,” as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code. (4) “Public agency” means the state or any state agency, board, or commission, any city, county, city and county, including charter cities, or special district, or any agency, board, or commission of the city, county, city and county, special district, joint powers authority, or other political subdivision. (5) “Public transit” means a major transit stop as defined in Section 21155 of the Public Resources Code. (6) “Project” does not include a project where any portion is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging, except where a portion of a housing development project is designated for use as a residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of the Health and Safety Code. (f) This section shall not reduce, eliminate, or preclude the enforcement of any requirement imposed on a new multifamily residential or nonresidential development that is located within one-half mile of public transit to provide electric vehicle supply equipment installed parking spaces or parking spaces that are accessible to persons with disabilities that would have otherwise applied to the development if this section did not apply. (g) When a project provides parking voluntarily, a public agency may impose requirements on that voluntary parking to require spaces for car share vehicles, require spaces to be shared with the public, or require parking owners to charge for parking. A public agency may not require that voluntarily provided parking is provided to residents free of charge. (h) (1) Subdivision (a) shall not apply to commercial parking requirements if it conflicts with an existing contractual agreement of the public agency that was executed before January 1, 2023, provided that all of the required commercial parking is shared with the public. This subdivision shall apply to an existing contractual agreement that is amended after January 1, 2023, provided that the amendments do not increase commercial parking requirements. (2) A project may voluntarily build additional parking that is not shared with the public. (i) The Legislature finds and declares that the imposition of mandatory parking minimums can increase the cost of housing, limit the number of available units, lead to an oversupply of parking spaces, and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, this section shall be interpreted in favor of the prohibition of the imposition of mandatory parking minimums as outlined in this section. SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that to lower the cost of housing production by reducing unnecessary parking requirements is a matter of statewide concern and is not a municipal affair as that term is used in Section 5 of Article XI of the California Constitution. Therefore, Section 2 of this act adding Section 65863.2 to the Government Code applies to all cities, including charter cities. SEC. 4. (a) Section 1.1 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 65585 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and Assembly Bill 2011. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2023, (2) each bill amends Section 65585 of the Government Code, and (3) Assembly Bill 2653 is not enacted or as enacted does not amend that section, and (4) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 2011, in which case Sections 1, 1.2, and 1.3 of this bill shall not become operative. (b) Section 1.2 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 65585 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and Assembly Bill 2653. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2023, (2) each bill amends Section 65585 of the Government Code, (3) Assembly Bill 2011 is not enacted or as enacted does not amend that section, and (4) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 2653 in which case Sections 1, 1.1, and 1.3 of this bill shall not become operative. (c) Section 1.3 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 65585 of the Government Code proposed by this bill, Assembly Bill 2011, and Assembly Bill 2653. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) all three bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2023, (2) all three bills amend Section 65585 of the Government Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 2011 and Assembly Bill 2653, in which case Sections 1, 1.1, and 1.2 of this bill shall not become operative. SEC. 5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees, or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code.
[Chaptered text of AB 2097 (2021-2022), saved by browser from leginfo.legislature.ca.gov on 2026-09-30; the site's robots.txt disallows crawling.]
