Saved from https://stevehiltonforgovernor.com/policies/wait-until-8th-for-smartphones (rendered page text, built-in browser, 2026-10-07)

POLICY

WAIT UNTIL 8TH FOR SMARTPHONES

← POLICY ARCHIVE
WAIT UNTIL 8TH FOR SMARTPHONES
INTRODUCTION

Steve Hilton’s goal is for California to become the world leader in protecting childhood by working towards a voluntary but complete elimination of smartphones for children under 14, in line with the fast-growing “Wait Until 8th” movement which aims to set a social norm that children should not be given smartphones until 8th grade.

While there are increasing calls for a complete ban on smartphones - indeed Steve himself floated this idea 11 years ago in his 2015 book ‘More Human’ - a simplistic ban would be neither practical, nor supported by parents and the wider public.

THE PROBLEM

Smartphones are the scourge of modern childhood. Their vast harms have been well documented, notably by Jonathan Haidt in his recent book ‘The Anxious Generation.’ Children should be connecting and playing with others on a human level, exploring and enjoying the physical world with a sense of fun and adventure, not glued like drones from a dystopian movie to pieces of glass and plastic. Parents instinctively understand this and have been driven to despair by the invasion of toxic technology, wrecking family life, relationships and the simple pleasures of childhood. Not to mention the disastrous impact of smartphones on education and learning. And it is getting worse not better…smartphones, video games, now AI…parents are desperately asking where this is all leading and if it will ever end.

Well - the choice is in our hands. With Steve Hilton as governor, parents will no longer be asked to fight this battle one household at a time. Parents who do not want their children to have smartphones feel forced to give in when every other child has one. The companies behind these products know they are addictive and profit from getting children hooked as early as possible.

However, current responses to this terrible problem are simply not working. The recent Meta settlement, for example, is a complete waste of time and money. Everyone knows that it will make no real dent in Big Tech addiction and the destruction of childhood caused by the scourge of smartphones. Social media bans, lawsuits, guidelines, exhortations, parental controls will do nothing unless they address the real problem: not the apps but the screens. Specifically, smartphones. Everyone knows that children will find ways to evade measures that aim to manage social media use, just as they are evading Australia's much-hyped social media 'ban' and all the others that have followed.

It is time for our society to wake up. We cannot allow children unsupervised access to the internet. It is time to stop the destruction of childhood by focusing on the real problem: smartphones.

STEVE’S PLAN WILL
MAKE EVERY CALIFORNIA SCHOOL COMPLETELY PHONE-FREE

California will adopt a bell to bell ban, strictly enforced. Current state law allows schools merely to limit smartphone use. Steve would require smartphones to be turned off and put away from the first bell to the last, with exceptions only for emergencies, medical needs and disabilities.

HELP PARENTS ACT TOGETHER

Every class in every school in California will be required to ask all parents to sign a ‘Wait Until 8th’ contract. The default assumption will be participation in the contract; parents will need to proactively opt out. Lists of parents who opt out will be published. A child with a smartphone will be the odd one out.

INFORM NEW PARENTS

Every maternal and family health provider in California will be required to invite every new parent in California to sign a ‘Wait Until 8th’ pledge.

SETTING SOCIAL NORMS IN THE COMMUNITY

Any organization receiving funding from the state of California: community groups, after-school clubs, sporting and cultural organizations, faith-based organizations…will be required to commit to a ‘Wait Until 8th’ policy as part of their contract with the state.

MAKE BASIC PHONES THE ATTRACTIVE ALTERNATIVE

Steve will bring carriers, manufacturers and retailers together to make affordable call-and-text phones widely available and stop pushing full smartphones at young children. Steve will work with the legislature to make knowingly selling smartphones, tablets or other addictive technology to young children a criminal offense.

ESTABLISH A CLEAR MINIMUM AGE OF 16 FOR SOCIAL MEDIA

Steve will put responsibility on the platforms to keep underage children off their products.

This will only work if parents, schools, business and the wider community all move together. The goal is a smartphone-free childhood: a real childhood, to make it normal again for children not to have a toxic, addictive smartphone and to give children time for friends, family, play and the beauty and wonder of the real world.

Let’s make California the world leader in making childhood more human.

← Back to all policies
