Paid political letter: Forsman’s Experience and Work Ethic Need - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Forsman’s Experience and Work Ethic Need Published November 01, 2023 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. I am writing today to endorse Arik Forsman for City Councilor at Large. From his beginning on the Council, I have been impressed with his passion, work ethic, and willingness to address hard issues. ADVERTISEMENT His accomplishments since then have been many. He helped lead Spirit Mountain out of the red and made it profitable again, he took on Childcare in Duluth and made it a priority. Instead of efforts to defund the police, he is fighting to include raises for police officers and firefighters. This year he also proposes to include dollars for critical repairs to Parks. The list goes on, but my favorite attribute of Arik’s is his responsiveness. When called upon, he responds immediately, looks into the problem, and then takes action. We need his experience and work ethic. Vote Arik November 7th. Paid for by Arik Forsman for Duluth Committee. Mary Kirsling ADVERTISEMENT Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.