Kozlowski enters race for East Duluth state House seat - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Kozlowski enters race for East Duluth state House seat WDIO-TV --> [anvplayer video="5096431&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] There are now three candidates for the DFL nomination to represent eastern Duluth in the Minnesota House of Representatives. Alicia Kozlowski joined the race Wednesday, setting up an August 9 primary with previously-announced candidates Breanna Ellison and Arik Forsman. The flurry of announcements came after Rep. Jen Schultz announced two weeks ago that she would not seek re-election. Kozlowski has served as the City of Duluth's Community Relations Officer for the past three years. She said in a news release that her experiences organizing and leading in the Duluth community over the past 12 years, and her identity a member of the LGBTQ+ community, a third-generation Mexican-American, and Anishinaabe-Ojibwe direct descendent of the Grand Portage Band of Ojibwe, prepared and shaped her call to serve. "Anishinaabe peoples are known as &#8216;the people of the heart way.' I have been taught to lead with my heart, speak with my heart, and run with my heart out front for our community and future generations," Kozlowski said. Eastern Duluth is now part of House District 8B after redistricting. The area was formerly part of District 7A, with the new 8B now pairing Duluth Heights and Kenwood with other East Duluth neighborhoods but Central Hillside now paired with western Duluth. Official filing for state legislative seats doesn't actually begin until May 17. No Republicans have announced their candidacy for any of the Duluth seats. EARLIER COVERAGE: Breanna Ellison announces run for House 8B spot Duluth city councilor Arik Forsman launches legislative campaign Duluth's Schultz won't seek re-election to state House Alicia Kozlowski is running for Minnesota House.[Provided by Kozlowski campaign] --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow