Duluth City Council approves 2026 budget - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council approves 2026 budget By WDIO --> Duluth City Council approves 2026 budget Duluth City Council approves 2026 budget The Duluth City Council held its final meeting before the holidays Monday night, approving the city’s 2026 budget and property tax levy after months of work to keep the levy increase below 5%. RELATED: Council narrowly passes property tax levy hike &#8211; WDIO.com Several councilors said that while the budget moves the city forward, it serves largely as a temporary fix. They emphasized that Duluth still faces significant long‑term financial challenges that will require additional work in the coming year. "If you pay attention to what's happening in the state budget, luckily there's a temporary bump in the surplus that's projected for 2026 but after that we're in a deficit," said At Large Councilor Arik Forsman. "Looking at local government aid and all the other ways in which we take revenues into the city needs to be a focus for us going into the new year. I have a feeling this next budget is going to have the hard decisions that we thought this budget was going to have." The council also discussed a resolution that would change how its meetings are conducted — a proposal that could eliminate Thursday agenda meetings and split public comment into two separate sessions. After residents raised concerns surrounding limiting time for issues to be addressed, councilors voted to table the measure for future consideration. Monday’s meeting also marked the final session for Councilors Azrin Awal, Tara Swenson and Deborah DeLuca as their terms come to an end. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow