City Council votes for rezoning in Woodland development - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture City Council votes for rezoning in Woodland development By WDIO --> Duluth City Council met on Monday May 12th, the biggest item on the agenda was a proposed new housing development in Duluth's Woodland neighborhood. The development would be two buildings each with 60 condominiums. WDIO received many emails regarding the development from concerned neighbors about bringing crowds into the residential neighborhood and potential environmental impact on a nearby stream. others arguing the development would be a positive way to help Duluth's housing shortage. Duluth councilors were tasked with voting on a zoning change that would allow the development to move forward. "If I were to step back and look at the situation, I know these are hard rezoning changes. This is the hardest type of vote the council takes up. I think there are ways we can think differently about these issues in the future," said City Councilman Arik Forsman. "We have to vote under the code that we have today." The councilors had received emails on both sides of the issue. "We have certainly received our fair share of folks that have weighed in with concerns and I understand and appreciate that," Said Forsman. "But I have never seen the volume of emails asking for a development to go forward and quite a few of them were folks that live in that neighborhood." In the end the rezoning passed 7 to 1. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow