Councilor Forsman selected as Duluth acting mayor - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Councilor Forsman selected as Duluth acting mayor By WDIO --> Councilor Arik Forsman selected as Duluth acting mayor Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert announced that City Councilor Arik Forsman has been selected as acting mayor. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert announced that City Councilor Arik Forsman has been selected as his mayor pro tem, or acting mayor. A mayor pro tem serves as acting mayor for shorter mayoral absences as needed. Councilor Forsman had formally served a similar role for former Mayor Emily Larson and said the only difference this time around was that it was made formal. When asked about what Forsman has the power to do, Reinert says, "Well, ideally he'll do nothing, because we'll have thought ahead a four day absence that covers part of a weekend that is not going to be significant to our city's operations." Both Forsman and Mayor Reinert cited the Mayor's obligations as a Naval reservist as a situation where Forsman may need to fulfill his duties. Mayor Reinert said that they'd be able to plan for these absences and continued to say that ideally Forsman wouldn't have to do anything and that there would be no impact on city operations. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow