Forsman Delivers for Duluth - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Forsman Delivers for Duluth Published July 13, 2022 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article I proudly write in support of Arik Forsman to represent Duluth in the Minnesota House. One of Arik’s best qualities is understanding the difference between legislating and campaigning. Campaigning is necessary, but at some point the work needs to get done. As a city councilor, Arik has worked tirelessly to deliver for Duluth. He supports working people, the police and fire departments who keep us safe, and stands in solidarity with underrepresented and vulnerable populations. ADVERTISEMENT He is also a strong supporter of our Veterans and worked to save the Memorial Day Parade when it was in jeopardy. His love for the people of Duluth drive his work and I have no doubt he will take this same passion with him to the Capitol to fight for Duluth on a larger scale. With national politics becoming unglued, we are in need of a trusted, level-headed state representative who can ensure a fair shake for all Minnesotans. Council President Arik Forsman is that candidate. Please join me in voting for Arik Forsman in the primary election on August 9th. Paid for by Arik Forsman for House 8B Committee. Nik Bayuk Duluth, MN ADVERTISEMENT Paid Political Content Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.