Rezoning efforts move forward for future condos on Woodland Ave - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Rezoning efforts move forward for future condos on Woodland Ave William Lien WDIO --> The Duluth Planning Commission recently approved the proposal to rezone an upcoming housing development. Titanium Partners is planning to build two luxury condominiums, both will have 30 units each. The plans are to build them on a property across from the Hartley Nature Center. Although there's been a pushback from some neighbors about the rezoning efforts. Duluth City Councilor Arik Forsman weighed in saying the rezoning proposal will be voted on by the council in Mid-April. "It'll go to our Planning Commission first, and they'll take it under consideration. We have a residential planned zoning area that allows to try to shift boundaries to maximize the amount of green space. Also build more density for housing, which is what this developer is proposing," Forsman said. "That process has to come to the city council for either approval or denial based on the facts and all the public comments in front of us." Even if residents are against the rezoning efforts and housing development, the property is private, and not open for public use. "When you have a property that's already zoned for development, the developer has a legal right to move a project forward. As long as it fits within the bounds of that. So this is not park property. This is privately owned," Forsman said. "He could come in and build homes on that lot without a zoning change. So the question really is, is this ultimately better for the community than what&#8211; otherwise, he has a legal right to build. There are folks who just don't want to see anything. But that's, in reality, not the situation." For another story about the rezoning efforts you can read more here . Also for more details about the Duluth Planning Commission's agenda about the rezoning efforts you can read that here . For Related Stories: developments Duluth housing William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow