Hawk Ridge estates zoning change proposed - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Hawk Ridge estates zoning change proposed Darren Danielson WDIO --> Hawk Ridge Estates zoning change proposal Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team A topic weighing heavy on the minds of some Duluth residents is what will result from the Bald Eagle rezoning project being proposed near Hawk Ridge. Commmunity members have been urging Duluth city council members to deny a rezoning request for months now. The request is from New Haven, a developer wanting to expand housing off Bald Eagle circle at the base of Hawk Ridge. Members of a home association, Hawk Ridge Estates say they want more oversight of the project. The council considered an amendment at Monday night's city council meeting to rezone the area in question from residential traditional to residential planned, saying the council would still retain significant oversight. "We can both specify the allowed uses, and there's some differences between what the staff recommended and what the planning commission ultimately passed," said Councilor Arik Forsman said. "But we can also go beyond that and specify things that are not allowed uses. And that's implied by not having it on the list of allowed uses, but I think it could add some additional comfort. For instance, we could say specifically, you can't have an RV park, you can't have a gas station." Despite councilor Forsman's assurances of council oversight, a number of residents reminded the council that the proposed development is directly below and visible from Skyline Parkway, is adjacent to the steep embankments of Hawk Ridge and immediately adjacent to the banks of Amity creek, a designated trout stream. Ken Loeffler-Kemp, a Bald Eagle Trail resident spoke at Monday night's meeting saying, "Because of its visibility and sensitive location, it's important that this development be done right with city council oversight, community input, and transparency. And that is why I oppose rezoning this property from R1 to RP." A vote on the rezoning is expected at one of the next two council meetings, either May 28th or June 10th. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council Hawk Ridge --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow