Duluth shapes policy to guide future use of tax subsidies for developers - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth shapes policy to guide future use of tax subsidies for developers Recent miscues have city officials taking a second look at when tax-increment financing may or not be an appropriate tool to assist projects. The city of Duluth offered tax-increment financing to help build Lincoln Park Flats but then withdrew that support when the developer decided to convert part of the apartment building to a "boutique hotel." Peter Passi / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi June 14, 2025 at 6:30 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — City councilors will take up a resolution Monday designed to provide clearer direction regarding how the city should make future use of a popular development incentive called tax-increment financing. City staff spent more than a year discussing how best to use TIF and researching how other Minnesota communities approach the subsidy before bringing forward a proposal. ADVERTISEMENT Three city councilors who are members of the Duluth Economic Development Authority — Arik Forsman, Janet Kennedy and Roz Randorf — also helped shape the proposed policy and introduce the resolution that would set it in place. Forsman pointed to a TIF agreement for the construction of Lincoln Park Flats that went off the rails last year as an illustration of the need for further direction. In that case, the developers of an apartment building ended up relinquishing TIF support when they decided to convert part of the structure into a “boutique hotel.” Lincoln Park Flats on Friday. Peter Passi / Duluth Media Group Another recent high-profile TIF package proposed for the site of the former Central High School campus also has drawn scrutiny, after the city notified the development group that it was in breach of a development agreement on the stalled project. In that case, no TIF subsidies had yet been provided. In light of these miscues, Randorf said the public attention now being focused on the city’s use of TIF incentives is entirely understandable. “Citizens want to know how TIF decisions are being made. So, it’s fair for everyone to be paying attention to this,” she said. Tax-increment financing is a subsidy that uses new taxes generated by a project to cover certain allowable development costs. The taxing jurisdictions continue to pocket whatever property taxes the unimproved property would have generated, but additional tax revenues are captured and returned to the developer for a defined number of years. When the TIF agreement expires, all future tax collections flow without disruption into local government coffers. ADVERTISEMENT By state statute, TIF assistance is to be provided only in circumstances where a project offering to benefit the surrounding community would not otherwise be financially feasible. This is often referred to as the “but-for test.” The city has employed outside third-party consultants to determine whether prospective projects meet this “but-for test,” and how much assistance could/should be offered. Yet some critics have questioned the findings. That scrutiny is justified in the eyes of 1st District City Councilor Wendy Durrwachter, who was the lone opponent of a TIF package recently offered to help Sofidel expand its Duluth papermaking operation. While Durrwachter continues to propose additional amendments to the original resolution heading to the council on Monday, she expressed support for the idea of providing greater guidance to staff and would-be developers about how the city intends to use its TIF incentive. “I feel the city has been abusing TIF to try to get projects forward, and the public subsequently suffers from not having access to enough of its tax base as it would want for many years,” she said, explaining that this shifts more of the tax burden onto other local property owners. Durrwachter calls for greater specificity in the proposed TIF resolution heading to the council on Monday. ADVERTISEMENT But Randorf warned against the council getting “a little deep into the weeds” with multiple amendments, particularly as additional time-sensitive requests for TIF support continue to move through the pipeline. She pointed to the planned renovation of the former Duluth Armory as an example of a project that could be unduly slowed by a protracted discussion about how the city should use TIF. Randorf suggested the council focus on passing “something workable” on Monday. “And then we can refine it,” she said. “Policies can always be updated and changed and added to. This is a conversation that doesn’t need to end.” READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH CITY COUNCIL By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Subscribers Only Local Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass 2d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local One hurt, one in custody after stabbing in Beaver Bay 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.