Paid political letter: Kids for Councilor Arik Forsman - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Kids for Councilor Arik Forsman Published November 01, 2023 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. Elected officials frequently talk about the need for more high-quality childcare in our community when running for office. But there’s only one candidate on the ballot this year who’s been fighting for childcare providers for years and has actually gotten things done - Arik Forsman. ADVERTISEMENT When Arik got on the city council in 2018, he reached out right away to learn about the issues facing childcare providers and the challenges we face. He helped guide me personally through challenges with the city’s permitting and inspection process that delayed our opening. He pushed for and passed local incentives to help grow our childcare capacity in Duluth. And he was the strongest supporter locally during the pandemic to advocate for what we needed at the state and federal levels to stay afloat. Arik truly understands the connection between quality early childhood education and care as an essential key to the health of our community and economy - now and for future generations. On multiple occasions, Arik has gone to St. Paul with leaders of the business community to lobby Republican and DFL legislators for why they should support childcare investments. That’s the kind of non-partisan leadership the city council needs. As a Duluth business owner and childcare provider, I happily support Arik in advocating for our youngest citizens in Duluth. Please vote for Arik on November 7th! Paid for by Arik Forsman for Duluth Committee. ADVERTISEMENT April Westman Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.