Resolution to reallocate funds to Duluth Housing and Redevelopment Authority fails - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Resolution to reallocate funds to Duluth Housing and Redevelopment Authority fails By WDIO --> A resolution to transfer $3,900,000 of American Rescue Plan funds to the Duluth Housing & Redevelopment Authority for affordable housing failed at the Duluth City Council meeting Monday, April 22. The vote was split evenly 4 to 4, causing the resolution to fail. Prior to the failing vote, it was proposed to table the discussion until all councilors were present, but that tabling also failed in a split vote. Councilor at Large Arik Forsman came out against the resolution, stating that more than $20 million had already been put towards affordable housing projects in Duluth since 2021, something he said the council should be proud of, and that he believed economic development investment should also be taken into consideration with the funds. "Of course affordable housing within existing gaps should be in the mix for these unspent funds. That goes without saying, but, we should be open to using DEDA's flexibility to consider how to make the maximum impact in our community with one time funds," said Forsman to his fellow councilors. "That includes being more open to economic development." The council has until the end of the year to decide how to utilize the unspent American Rescue Plan funds. For Related Stories: Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow