Duluth city councilor Arik Forsman decides he will run for re-election after all - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth city councilor Arik Forsman decides he will run for re-election after all By WDIO --> (WDIO) Duluth City Councilor Arik Forsman has decided to run for re-election after all. Forsman had announced in February he wasn't seeking the spot again. But things have changed. After extensive reflection and countless discussions with community members encouraging him to reconsider, he’s concluded that his work in public service is not yet finished, and he’s ready to continue serving the city he loves with the full support of his family. He said in a statement, "The stakes are too high in this election for Duluthians. I’m ready to fight for what matters and move our city forward with you. Today I humbly announce my intent to run for re-election after all and offer Duluth a voice of reason on the ballot this August and November.” Forsman’s campaign theme, “Our Voice of Reason,” will highlight his no-nonsense approach to the work of city council, which include his vision for prioritizing new investments to support Duluth’s kids, his unwavering support for protecting police and fire budgets, and how he’ll keep getting the job done. He was appointed in 2018 to an At-Large seat, and then won the same spot in 2019. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow