Paid political letter: Forsman a Community Builder - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Forsman a Community Builder Published November 01, 2023 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. Duluthians can support a tried and tested leader in Arik Forsman. Forsman has served us well as a councilor with a deep understanding of the importance of community building through economic opportunity. His day job is working with regional partners to help grow jobs, retain businesses, and address the barriers people face in pursuit of a better life. As a member of the Duluth Economic Development Authority, Arik understands the public sector tools available to promote Duluth and advance private investment and development opportunities that produce living wages for families. More importantly, he knows that growing the jobs and businesses in our community generates the tax base to support critical city services and the incomes that provide families with a strong economic foundation. The sales tax revenue supplied by the new Costco is streaming into Duluth’s general fund because Arik reached out to the company when their project met an impasse. He worked with city staff and company officials to get that project back on track and built-in Duluth city limits. ADVERTISEMENT Another recent example of his leadership involved the sale of a building to Cirrus . Arik struck a balanced approach to commit sales proceeds to future economic development opportunities as well as filling community gaps in essential park maintenance, housing, libraries, and public safety. Duluth has many challenges ahead with an uncertain national economy still facing headwinds. Now is the time for someone with experience who can work together with fellow councilors, city administration and other partners to focus on the priorities within our local control. Join me in voting for Arik Forsman, a proven leader. Paid for by Arik Forsman for Duluth Committee. Nancy Norr Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.