Council approves Lester Park Golf Course transfer - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Council approves Lester Park Golf Course transfer By WDIO --> Council votes to transfer golf course land During an hours long meeting, city councilors voted to transfer the old Lester Park Golf Course site to DEDA. December 8 saw a standing room-only Duluth City Council meeting lasting five hours. Attracting the most public attention was ordinance 25-032-O , which transfers the 230-acres that make up the long-shuttered Lester Park Golf Course to DEDA, the Duluth Economic Development Authority. What to do with the old, 27-hole course has been a subject of much debate in the community. In the fall of 2024 , Mayor Roger Reinert convened an informal working group to make non-binding recommendations, which were subsequently presented to the city council in the spring of 2025 , when no action was taken. Some in the community want golf to return. Others favor mixed business and residential development. Many want nothing to be done with the land, leaving it as a de facto open park. A majority of the speakers during the meeting expressed disapproval for the transfer idea, with many citing the potential loss of greenspace for the city. "I do not foresee us gaining that space back," said Duluthian Lindsay Lee, "In an era when we have so many people, and in my perspective that I work with daily, children who are suffering the effects of disconnection from each other and their natural spaces, I think it's abhorrent that we are considering transferring this to a development." Still, some spoke in favor of some kind of development, such as Duluth resident Tim Allen. "This property is more than 230 acres and is more than big enough to provide space for the city. There are several proposals out there that satisfy citizens' desires to have housing, a portion of affordable housing, pickleball, 18-hole new golf, daycare, cycling groups, cross-country skiing, nature trails, bocce ball, daycare, whatever. These are just a few," Allen said. The ordinance also called for a rezoning of 1500 acres of adjacent, city-owned land to be rezoned. While long in use as parkland, it was currently zoned as residential. Many citizens have urged support for this, though plenty have questioned why it was coupled with the DEDA transfer, some going so far as to call it quid pro quo. Councilor Arik Forsman rejected this, stating that coupling them was a matter of accountability in getting the rezoning work done by putting a firm timeline on it. The DEDA transfer, which councilors passed 8-1, with Councilor Wendy Durrwachter voting no, is contingent on a land use study being performed on the property. Mayor Roger Reinert told WDIO he expects this to take "at least" a year, and Councilor Forsman noted that the rezoning of the 1500 acres of rezoning work will happen no matter the result of that land use study. No development will result as a direct result of the December 8 vote. Councilor Lynn Nephew pointed to the land use study being a requirement of closure of the transfer. "If the land can't be developed, it won't be transferred to DEDA," Nephew explained. Mayor Roger Reinert, who's expressed support for some sort of development at the site, says he believes that leaving the site as-is isn't feasible given the needs of the city. "What we cannot afford, number one, is to do nothing. It's sat for six years and it's literally just deteriorating in place," the Mayor said in an interview with WDIO the day of the meeting, "We are not lacking on green space, but what we desperately need is housing." He went on to explain of the prime areas for residential construction in the city, the former Central High site, downtown, and the Lester Park Golf Course, the latter was the only city owned property, making it the easiest for development. As far as a timeline for any potential construction, Mayor Reinert said it wouldn't be soon, something he expressed some frustration with. "We're still a good couple of years away. And that's not fast enough, it really isn't. And yet to do nothing would be the alternative and that's unacceptable. We just have to be willing as leaders in this community to tackle this housing issue." More details on the Duluth City Council, including councilor contact information, agendas, and recordings of previous meetings can be found on the city's website . For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Roger Reinert --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow