Election day tips: What to know before you go to the polls - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Election day tips: What to know before you go to the polls Amanda Eke WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5146666&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Election day is just mere hours away and this race is proving to be critical. Voting of course is a civic right and privilege, however, do you know what to bring and where to go? We talked to Duluth City Council’s President, Arik Forsman, on his top tips. “It's critical to vote not only because we've got the governor's race on the ballot and some really important statewide races. But voting is where you also weigh in on your local races. And so throughout the region tomorrow, we have really important races from school board to city councils, not in Duluth, but in lots of other places. And the best way to make change in your local community is to go out and exercise your right to vote,” says Forsman. Being in engaged in the voting process is critical to make your best decisions on voting day. Here are Arik’s top three tips to keep in mind as you head to the polls tomorrow. 1) Redistricting this year in the state of Minnesota. This is where the judges redraw all the lines that say these are the precincts that we have, which means that you might have a different place to vote this year. 2) Another important thing to know is that in Minnesota, we have a state law that says that if you are working during voting hours, you are allowed to leave with pay to be able to go vote, to exercise your right, to cast your ballot. 3) Make sure to look at both sides of your ballot. We've got county races, there are school board and council races outside of Duluth. Judges are up for election. It's important that you weigh in on all of these things. 4) Bring an ID with your current address. 5) Same day registration. With your ID you can register to vote and cast your ballot same day. Either bring an ID with your current address or bring an ID with some proof of residence. That could be a utility bill, which is either on paper or on your phone. Voting brings a range of emotions, from excitement, to fear, to anxiety. However it is best to be armed with knowledge as you go out to the polls. To find out more info about where your local polling place is, as well as more information, click here: https://sos.state.mn.us/ --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow