Paid political letter: Re-elect Arik Forsman - A Community Advocate and Leader - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Re-elect Arik Forsman - A Community Advocate and Leader Published October 25, 2023 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. Councilor Arik Forsman is an experienced city leader who partnered with our group to find a resolution to a proposed roundabout at 60th Ave E and London Rd. He responded immediately when contacted and met with our group several times over the past year. ADVERTISEMENT He thoughtfully listened to our concerns, stayed objective and provided sage guidance. He met with stakeholders on our behalf, functioned as a liaison between the city administration and MNDOT, and always followed- through. Arik was the voice of reason and took the time to listen when others would not. He was dependable, generous with his time, and extremely supportive of our neighborhood. He has integrity, good intentions, and the skill set to get things done. Duluth is fortunate to have a City Councilor like Arik Forsman to advocate for and represent the people of our community. We strongly support the re-election of Arik Forsman for Duluth City Councilor At Large. Paid for by Arik Forsman for Duluth Committee Preserve the Gateway Steering Committee Carrie & Duane Battisti Mary Jo Connolly Richard & Linden Fraser Elizabeth & Travis Johnson Will & Julie Norman Lynn Salmela ADVERTISEMENT Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.