Vote for Arik Forsman on November 5 - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Vote for Arik Forsman on November 5 Published November 03, 2019 at 3:14 AM Listen Share Share this article This letter is paid content. I am supporting Arik Forsman as he seeks a full term as a Duluth at-large city councilor. I served with Arik on the Northspan Board of Directors. It was there that I first got to see his people and organizational skills as we hired a new director. His hard work, thoughtfulness, organized approach and leadership helped get us the right leader for this economic development nonprofit. It also offered me the opportunity to interact with him in his day job as he promotes local economic development and works to grow stable, family-sustaining jobs in our community. ADVERTISEMENT While Arik and I may not agree on every issue, I trust that he will be an honest and effective advocate for all of Duluth citizens. He will work for equitable public safety and respond to our communities needs for affordable housing and daycare. He will take his duty as a public servant seriously and do the work necessary to spend city resources in the most responsible and effective ways. I appreciate that Arik engages with other local governmental units working toward collaborative solutions. Daycare is an issue where our responsibilities overlap and where collaboration is imperative. I know that Arik will be there to help solve this challenge, providing much needed help to families and increasing our available workforce. Arik has done the thorough background work to understand the depth of the challenges facing members of our community. He turns out for community events in all Duluth neighborhoods and works to understand the issues facing them. What makes him effective in these situations is his friendly and open manner which encourages conversation even when the issues are tough. Please join me in supporting Arik on November 5. Frank Jewell, St. Louis County Commissioner ADVERTISEMENT Duluth, Minn. Paid for by Arik Forsman for Duluth Committee Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.