20 Under 40: Arik Forsman - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Community 20 Under 40: Arik Forsman Arik Forsman (Tyler Schank / tschank@duluthnews.com) By News Tribune and Christa Lawler September 23, 2020 at 3:00 AM Listen Share Share this article Arik Forsman, 32, Duluth What do you do? (job, community involvement) Day job: I help lead Minnesota Power’s business retention, expansion and recruitment efforts across northeastern and central Minnesota. ADVERTISEMENT Night job: I serve as an at large member of the Duluth City Council, as well as on the boards of the Northspan Group, Community Action Duluth, Greater Downtown Council, 1200 Fund, Laurentian Chamber of Commerce and various other committees and task forces. How do you spend your free time? Our family loves taking family hikes on the Superior Hiking Trail, playing in our yard, and loading up in the van after dinner for ice cream. I’m also quietly a big fantasy football nerd and have run a league with my high school and college friends for 14 years. I haven’t won the title in nine years, but it’s a fun way to stay in touch with the type of lifelong friends who will go out of their way to keep a guy humble. Tell us about an influential person in your life. I’ve been really blessed to have supportive mentors, role models and family in my life. My work ethic and drive come from my mom and dad, who have always pushed me. I’ve also worked for seven bosses in my career, including six amazing women. One of those women is Nancy Norr. She is an incredibly community-minded leader who has pushed me to further my personal growth and development. Her mentorship, compassion and encouragement have been deeply impactful for me over the past five years. Even when I told her I was thinking about applying to serve on the City Council, an idea that may send other bosses running in the other direction, she took a deep breath and was fully supportive. ADVERTISEMENT Nancy is known nationally in her profession of economic development as a leader who has mastered her craft. I feel lucky to get to learn from someone who expects the best of herself every day and has taught me invaluable lessons about building relationships, trust, and making an impact in my own career. Where is your favorite place in Duluth/Superior? This is like being asked to pick which child is your favorite. An impossible choice. But if forced to choose, going to Amsoil Arena for a hockey game with my family is at the top of my list. My wife, Jessica, and I went to University of Minnesota Duluth games together in college when we were dating and now we love sharing the experience with our two young kids. We are such diehards that we road-tripped as a family to Buffalo, New York, to watch them win the national championship in 2019. Go Bulldogs! What have you learned in your time spent at home during the pandemic? How much my dog actually sleeps during the day, how privileged I am to have a career that allows me to temporarily work from home, and that sometimes it’s OK to slow down a little. In “normal” times, I’m usually at full throttle and attending many events and meetings throughout the week (both before and after working hours). The pandemic has definitely forced a slower pace that has allowed for more family time and "quiet" moments with my kids. But COVID-19 has also deeply exposed cracks in our systems that show how much our society depends on essential workers, many of whom struggle to make ends meet and who don’t have the luxury of working from home through a high-speed broadband connection. We’ve got a lot of work to do to make our economy more equitable and durable as we move into a post-pandemic world (hopefully sooner than later). As a city, we must continue to work on issues like child care, housing, and growing more good-paying jobs to set our current and future families up for success. Duluth has so much potential, and I’m excited to be a small part of our city’s present and future along with these other talented 20 Under 40 leaders in our community. ADVERTISEMENT Arik Forsman (Tyler Schank / tschank@duluthnews.com) free Share Share this article Tags Tags PEOPLE MINNESOTA POWER DULUTH CITY COUNCIL DULUTH Listen to this article What To Read Next Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.