Duluth City Council may require landlords to inform tenants of rights - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth City Council may require landlords to inform tenants of rights The proposed ordinance could offer an alternative to a controversial "right to repair" policy that a local tenants union continues to promote. A sign advertises an apartment unit available for rent. 2003 file / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi May 22, 2025 at 10:10 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — A trio of city councilors is proposing a new ordinance designed to better inform local renters of their tenant rights. Councilors Terese Tomanek, Roz Randorf and Lynn Marie Nephew have introduced a policy that would require local landlords to inform tenants of the rights and resources that are already available to them to help resolve any issues that may arise with property managers. ADVERTISEMENT But a local group called Duluth Tenants continues to push for a new “right to repair” ordinance that could give them an additional, potentially more robust tool to wield if a landlord fails to address basic maintenance requests in a timely fashion. As proposed, the right-to-repair ordinance would empower tenants to notify a landlord of a maintenance issue, providing the property manager 14 days to address the problem or schedule a repair. If no action is taken within that time frame, a tenant would then have the right to hire a qualified third-party individual to execute the needed repair. The tenant could then submit a receipt for the repair, requesting reimbursement or a commensurate reduction in rent — up to a maximum of $500 or half a month’s rent, whichever is greater. Nationwide, more than 30 jurisdictions, including Chicago, have similar policies on their books. Nevertheless, Duluth could become the first Minnesota city to adopt such an ordinance, if the Duluth Tenants campaign proves successful. Randorf has questioned the need for the “Right to Repair” policy, however, pointing to tenants’ ability to file a Rent Escrow Action or an Emergency Tenant Remedies Action through the courts, under existing law. She suggested educating tenants of their rights would be more productive than creating new remedies. Similarly, a “statement of purpose” statement accompanying the proposed council ordinance Randorf has co-sponsored asserts: “Providing tenants with clear and accessible information about their legal protections fosters transparency, accountability and community well-being.” ADVERTISEMENT READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 But the tenants union is not relying on the Duluth City Council alone to advance its cause. The group’s volunteers have been knocking on doors throughout the community, and they already have gathered more than enough signatures to get the proposed ordinance placed on the ballot for a referendum vote come November. TakeAction MN Organizer DyAnna Grondahl said Duluth Tenants has a goal of collecting 5,600 signatures — about 2,000 more than required — and they're less than 1,000 names away from that final target. “We’re encouraged to see movement at the council level, but after thousands of conversations with renters and folks across the city, it’s clear that education alone isn’t enough,” Grondahl said. “Duluthians, renters and homeowners alike, are clear that passing the common-sense policy Duluth Right to Repair to ensure folks can get timely repairs in their units is the next step renters deserve.” Randorf said she has remained in close contact with the tenants union and Grondahl. “They are aware of all the work we are doing, in hopes that they will find it satisfactory to the ballot measure that they have been proposing, which we believe is systemically flawed,” Randorf said, pointing out that the council ordinance to be read for the first time Tuesday is just the first part of a larger councilor initiative to hold problem landlords accountable for not making needed repairs. In a news release announcing the council’s efforts to enhance tenant rights, a second pending initiative also was laid out that could lead to the adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code to establish the minimum requirements landlords must meet in maintaining their properties. Nephew warned that the proposed tenant union’s “right to repair” ordinance could create cash flow problems for organizations that provide critical affordable housing in the community, as repairs made under the new policy might not be eligible for grant reimbursements, making for a less sustainable funding model. ADVERTISEMENT She also predicted that more landlords would shift away from long-term lease agreements and toward month-to-month leases that provide them with more flexibility but that also would come at the expense of housing stability for renters. Randorf suggested that tenants might get over their heads in seeking repairs and could find themselves out on the street for jobs that unexpectedly snowball, putting them at odds with their landlords. Nephew, Tomanek and Randorf all said they want to see landlords held to account, noting that the vast majority want to do right by their tenants. For the small minority of landlords who don’t want to make timely needed repairs, they say the city can step up enforcement mechanisms and penalties. Toward that end, the council aims to convene a “study session” Tuesday evening with staff to discuss possible means to gain greater and stricter code compliance. Tomanek said it is her hope that when people see the amount of work the council is investing, in consultation with trusted housing partners, “and they will see that we are putting forward a program that will help tenants in a very positive way,” making the right-to-repair policy proposal unnecessary. But Grondahl said members of the Duluth tenants union remain unconvinced at present. “Renters need real tools, not just information, to ensure their homes are safe and livable,” she said. ADVERTISEMENT About the Duluth City Council The Duluth City Council’s regular meetings are on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 6 p.m., with agenda meetings at 5:15 p.m. each Thursday preceding a regular meeting, unless otherwise scheduled, at City Hall, Room 330. Meetings are also livestreamed and recorded for later viewing at duluthmn.gov/city-council/city-council-meetings-events/council-meeting-media. Wendy Durrwachter District 1: Wendy Durrwachter Represents: Duluth city precincts 1-7 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5700, Ext. 3, wdurrwachter@duluthmn.gov Diane Desotelle. Contributed / Diane Desotelle District 2: Diane Desotelle Represents: Duluth city precincts 8-13 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5355, ddesotelle@duluthmn.gov Roz Randorf. District 3: Roz Randorf Represents: Duluth city precincts 14-19 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-443-8364/218-730-5353, rrandorf@duluthmn.gov David Clanaugh. Contributed / David Clanaugh District 4: David Clanaugh Represents: Duluth city precincts 21-27 Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5356, dclanaugh@duluthmn.gov Janet Kennedy. Clint Austin / 2024 file / Duluth Media Group District 5: Janet Kennedy, vice president Represents: Duluth city precincts 28-35 Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5357, jkennedy@duluthmn.gov Jordon Johnson. Contributed / Jordon Johnson At large: Jordon Johnson Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-730-5359, jjohnson@duluthmn.gov Arik Forsman At large: Arik Forsman Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5352, aforsman@duluthmn.gov Lynn Marie Nephew At large: Lynn Marie Nephew, president Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 3, 2028 Contact: 218-730-5354, lnephew@duluthmn.gov Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek At large: Terese Tomanek Represents: All Duluth city precincts Term expires: Jan. 7, 2030 Contact: 218-216-9126, ttomanek@duluthmn.gov Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL HOUSING GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Subscribers Only Local Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass 2d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local One hurt, one in custody after stabbing in Beaver Bay 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.