Hannah Alstead not running to keep City Council seat - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Hannah Alstead not running to keep City Council seat Alex Buie WDIO --> Hannah Alstead (WDIO) 4th District Duluth City Councilor Hannah Alstead has decided she will not seek election. Alstead was appointed to the Council in July 2022, after the passing of Councilor Renee Van Nett. "It has been an honor to fill the seat previously held by my close friend and mentor Renee Van Nett. I am excited to continue doing good work alongside my colleagues over the next year in my district and throughout the City of Duluth," shared Alstead. "A huge thank you to my family, friends, and mentors for being a part of all this with me. And a special thank you to the entire 4th District, I look forward to continue serving you over the next year." Outside of her City Council position, Alstead is also the Political and Labor Director for Teamsters Joint Council 32 representing 75,000 union members across Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Iowa. She is also the cheer coach at UMD. Elsewhere in the Council, President Janet Kennedy says she is seeking re-election. Ashlie Costaldo is running for an At-Large seat, and Ginka Tarnowski is looking to represent Duluth's 5th District. Earlier this campaign season, Councilor Gary Anderson announced he would not be running again this year. Tim Meyer is looking to fill Anderson's District 1 seat. Councilors Noah Hobbs and Arik Forsman are also not seeking re-election. UPDATE: Two days later, Arik Forsman announced on May 25 that he will be seeking re-election . For Related Stories: Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow