Duluth councilors look to ban smoking marijuana in public outdoor spaces, like parks - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth councilors look to ban smoking marijuana in public outdoor spaces, like parks By WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5185800&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] With legal marijuana use set to begin in Minnesota on August 1, 2023, Duluth City Councilors Arik Forsman, Roz Randorf, and Terese Tomanek announced Wednesday they will introduce an ordinance that aims to prohibit smoking marijuana in public outdoor spaces, including all city parks. The measure would proactively address potential public health and safety concerns brought about by the state law changes. “Today we are taking common sense action to maintain a safe, clean, and healthy environment for all residents and visitors of Duluth in our outdoor public spaces,” said Forsman, the lead author of the proposed new city law. “This ordinance reflects our commitment to strike a balance between personal freedoms and safeguarding the interests of non-smokers, families, and children from secondhand marijuana smoke.” The proposed ordinance will explicitly prohibit smoking or vaping of marijuana in all public parks and places like bus shelters. To-date, it is the first such known ordinance proposed by a city in the state of Minnesota since the new state laws were passed during the 2023 legislative session. The Duluth ordinance will be introduced at the upcoming July 24th meeting and voted on by the full city council on August 14th. Councilors Forsman, Randorf, and Tomanek welcome input over the next few weeks to ensure that all stakeholders can voice their perspectives on this important matter. Cannabis plant. (Pexels) --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow