New housing proposal at the site of Duluth Central High School - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture New housing proposal at the site of Duluth Central High School William Lien WDIO --> New housing proposal at the site of Duluth Central High School Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Finding affordable housing in Duluth can be a challenging problem. Although a new housing proposal at the site where Duluth Central High school once stood could potentially be the solution. Jeff Schiltz one of the principals representing ICS says plans are to create one of the biggest housing developments in Duluth. “The Incline Village will literally be a new neighborhood in Duluth. Right here on top of the hill and have its own retail and own amenities," Schiltz said. "The developer already has us in design of the first building. It will be a condominium building, which would be sitting right over my shoulder." The new housing proposal in the works would also bring 1,300 housing units overlooking the city of Duluth. "That building would begin construction here this summer," Schiltz said. "We expect families moving into that building starting in the summer or fall of 2025". Schiltz said the Incline Village project has three distinct phases. The first phase would tackle housing. The second phase would feature over 30,000 feet of retail space, but will also include public amenities like a plaza. "The third phase would be another 220 apartment complex or a senior housing building, which would be replacing the old building on the property.” The Duluth Economic Development Authority has already signed off on the proposal for building 1,300 housing units. However, Arik Forsman says it still has to get through City Council for approval. “Developing a site of this size is a very complicated endeavor," Forsman said. "I know that it's taken a long time to get to this point. I just have to give so much credit to our city staff. Putting us in a position to take what is currently a large vacant space and potentially turn it into one of our gems in the city.” Forsman said the Incline Village housing project proposal will be a costly project. DEDA approved Tax Increment Financing subsidy for the plan. "You're looking at upwards of a $500 million investment in Duluth with over 1,300 units of housing, as well as some retail on this site. So certainly big news with the city and I think a pretty exciting opportunity," Forsman said. "The city is using property tax values that will increase right here at this development to help fund some of the public infrastructure, roads, utilities, etc., so we can enable this very difficult site to develop, to move forward." The next city council meeting is on Monday February 12th, council members will hear the project proposal and determine whether or not the Incline Village project will move forward. For more information about ICS you can read more here . Also for other stories with housing you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth Economic Development Authority housing Incline Village William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow