Bald Eagle Estates project halts after developer withdraws zoning application. - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Bald Eagle Estates project halts after developer withdraws zoning application. Mary Skorich WDIO --> Bald Eagle Estates Rezoning Map The Bald Eagle Estates project, run by developer Newhaven LLC has come to a stop after the company withdrew their zoning application on Friday. The application was originally on the agenda for approval at the Duluth City Council meeting Tuesday night but has now been removed. The project has met pushback from the Hawk Ridge Estates Association and community due to the classification of the zoning project. The land is currently zoned under the Residential 1 Traditional permit, giving the community and the city council the power to make decisions regarding the steps taken by the developers. Newhaven LLC applied to have the land rezoned to Residential Planned, requiring the company to only need to meet with the community once &#8211; all other decisions would be left for the developers to approve. "The big issue is how much oversight do we want with developers in our community. You know, we are going to have development coming in the future, it needs to be done properly with oversight, and that has been our position all along," said Paula Tsufis, vice president of the Hawk Ridge Estates Association. Due to their decision, the developers cannot apply to rezone the land for one year. The reason for Newhaven's withdrawal is currently unknown, but Arik Forsman, Duluth City Council member, explained that the developers plan to sell the land. "So ultimately we are in a position now where I think the city needs to look at, in the future when we've got developers who want to come in and try something that maybe doesn't fit a perfect description of what's in out code, what's our approach and are we going to be willing to be flexible and work with them? And I hope we will be," said Forsman. For Related Stories: developments Duluth Mary Skorich --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow