Paid political letter: Arik Forsman - Authentic, Compassionate & Reliable - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Arik Forsman - Authentic, Compassionate & Reliable Published July 27, 2022 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article In our ‘current state’ it’s a mystery why anyone would want to go into politics – yet, we all want and NEED change. We are incredibly fortunate to live in a district where we have two driven and passionate candidates. Both Arik Forsman and Alicia Kozlowski are truly invested in representing our district and making changes. As a Native American woman I certainly feel drawn to encouraging candidates like Alicia who have admirable personal experiences. However, Arik’s professional experience and the strides he’s made with our City Council makes him the choice to take on this important role for our city for me. I believe Arik’s plans for a solution with our affordable housing concern has the potential to make big changes for our city, this will undoubtedly create the ripple effect we are in dire need of. I also believe Arik will truly and wholly represent the working people-on a variety of levels. Arik is not afraid of hard work and getting the job done right, and justly. His desire to preserve our democracy during this challenging climate is what we need for our future. ADVERTISEMENT While Alicia most certainly has a strong voice and will make change in Duluth, I believe it’s Arik who will best represent our district and our people in the state legislature. I am proud to support Arik Forsman for District 8 State House. Jena Evans Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.