Lester Park development won&#039;t be on the ballot, Duluth council decides - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Lester Park development won't be on the ballot, Duluth council decides By WDIO --> Duluth City Council decides not to put possible Lester Park development to vote Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team The Duluth City Council tackled the issue of Lester Park Golf Course again at Monday night's meeting, deciding not to let voters choose whether to allow the park to be developed. The organization "Our Park, Our Vote" filed two petitions, each with over 4,000 signatures, asking the city to put the fate of the park to a vote. The city said those petitions are illegal because of state laws regulating development that are more powerful than city charter. "Our Park, Our Vote" has taken Duluth to court over the controversial issue. After another lengthy public comment period, where many people urged the city once again to let the voters decide, council Arik Forsman said Duluth's municipal park system is facing over $100 million in deferred maintanance liabilities. This means the city must be responsible when deciding whether to support new investments, he said. He added that when the council voted to approve the sale of around 40 acres for development years ago, they planned to use the proceeds to maintain Enger Park. "That remains my firm commitment today if we have development at Lester Park Golf Course," he said. The recent land use study would leave the vast majority of Lester Park as green space, he said. "Our legal team has concluded that current state law preempts local charter initiatives from dictating zoning map changes by popular vote," he said. "And as Mr. Bayek mentioned earlier, voting yes tonight to place these questions on the ballot would give thousands of Duluthians a promise that we very likely cannot keep." People on both sides of the issue said the city was almost being asked to serve as a court of law. Public commenter Ryan Jones Casey suggested the city refrain from taking a position on the legality of the ballot. "As city councilors, all you have to do tonight is follow our city charter, which specifically spells out your role at this particular juncture in this particular ballot initiative process," he said. "It's to simply pass resolutions, allowing these initiatives to appear on the next ballot." For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Lester Park --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow