Duluth city councilor Arik Forsman is not running for re-election - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth city councilor Arik Forsman is not running for re-election By WDIO --> (WDIO) After much consideration, Duluth City Councilor Arik Forsman announced Wednesday that he will not seek re-election in 2023. Forsman has served on the council since 2018, led as Council President in 2022, and has been a strong advocate for the city and its residents. "It’s been an incredible honor to serve the people of Duluth and I’m grateful for the opportunity to have worked alongside my colleagues on the City Council," said Forsman. "There may certainly come a day where I put my name on the ballot again in this city that I love, but my top constituents – my wife Jessica, daughter Amelia, and son Arlo – all agree that it’s time for dad to take a break.” During his time on the council, Forsman has been a champion for economic development, public safety, and numerous other initiatives. He’s worked tirelessly, most often behind the scenes, to try and serve the needs of Duluthians and make decisions in the best interests of the long-term future of the community. "I want to say thank you to all of my supporters, including those in the labor community, business community, my coworkers at Minnesota Power & ALLETE, neighborhood leaders, and the many wonderful people that I have met along this journey," said Forsman. “I’ll be enthusiastically continuing to serve all Duluthians until my term expires and will keep trying to help communities across the entire region through my day job in economic development." “Finally, thank you to the city staff for your hard work. You are truly the backbone of our community and I greatly appreciate your devoted service.” Forsman's decision not to seek re-election opens up an opportunity for new candidates to run for the seat in the upcoming election. “While the Mayor’s race will understandably be the primary focus for most voters this year, a strong City Council is just as vital in the long run," said Forsman For Related Stories: Arik Forsman Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow