Reinert proposes levy increase - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Reinert proposes levy increase The Duluth City Council must vote on the levy by the end of the month, and pass the final city budget by the end of the year. Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert presents his levy and budget proposal to the city council on Thursday. Jimmy Lovrien / Duluth Media Group By Jimmy Lovrien September 11, 2026 at 5:33 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Mayor Roger Reinert pitched raising the city’s share of property taxes by 3.61%, or $1.6 million, to the city council Thursday evening. However, with a .96% growth in the tax base, the net increase is 2.65%. ADVERTISEMENT The levy is lower than the annual inflation rate, and the levy alone won’t close the city’s $5.5 million deficit next year. Additionally, the city's expenses are expected to continue to jump 6% annually while revenue grows slower at 1.5% each year. Local St. Louis County Board caps tax levy increase at 6.3% The levy increase will be offset by growth in the county's tax base from new construction. Sep 10 &#183; By Jake Przytarski “That's the definition of a structural budget deficit,” Reinert said. “So the work doesn't end when we balance the 2027 budget.” Higher compensation and benefits are the primary drivers of the increase in expenses, but inflation, tariffs and higher fuel prices are also increasing city costs. Reinert proposed a budget of $119 million for next year, and said his administration could balance it without layoffs by hiking the levy, moving unused funds into the general fund and saving through vacant positions. “We’re not imposing a hiring freeze, we're not recommending staff layoffs, and we’re not asking any one department to absorb a disproportionate share of the challenge,” Reinert said. “And we’re also not proposing an 11% property tax increase to simply fill the budget gap.” The city council must vote on the levy by the end of the month and pass the final city budget by the end of the year. When the council sets the levy in September, it can be lowered as the budget comes into focus, but it can't be raised once the maximum is set. ADVERTISEMENT The proposed budget would balance the budget by: Raising $1.6 million in property taxes Moving $1.8 million from the broadband fund into the general fund Saving $1.2 million through employee vacancies Raising $740,000 through an increase in commercial Minnesota Power franchise fees Moving nearly $420,000 in seasonal park maintenance expenses from the parks fund to the general fund, but still using it for park improvements Read more Duluth considers changing zoning rules in hopes of boosting housing Duluth mayor warns of financial challenges Stream restoration, irrigation upgrade complete at Enger Park Golf Course At-large Councilor Arik Forsman said he keeps expecting a difficult budget cycle but credited city staff with finding ways to avoid significant cuts again. “You went through the cupboard (and) found the extra cans of beans in the back,” Forsman said. “I didn’t think you had any more beans left. Turns out you did.” But the budget doesn’t address the structural deficit, and it relies on one-time savings or sources of revenue. “I also still think that the tidal wave is coming,” Forsman said, adding that he was concerned by less-than-1% growth. Reinert said the city needs to grow its tax base more, and that the city plans to lobby for an increase in local government aid from the state, which, at about $32 million, accounts for nearly a third of the city’s budget. It’s remained virtually flat for the last five years. “If we see flat (Local Government Aid) for another biennium in the legislature, that’s going to be incredibly challenging for us,” Reinert said. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL TAXES ROGER REINERT By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 3h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.