Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% The additional $1.6 million raised through the property tax increase will offset only a portion of the $5.5 million deficit. The council must approve a 2027 budget by the end of the year. Duluth City Hall. Bob King / Duluth Media Group file photo By Jimmy Lovrien September 29, 2026 at 6:12 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — The city's maximum tax levy increase is capped at 3.6%. The Duluth City Council unanimously approved a preliminary 2027 maximum increase of $1.6 million on Monday. ADVERTISEMENT Adjusting the city's share of property taxes is the first step in setting the 2027 budget, which Mayor Roger Reinert has proposed at $119 million. Now, the nine-member council has until the end of the year to approve next year's budget and plug an expected $5.5 million deficit. The council could still lower the levy by the end of December, but can't raise it beyond the figure set Monday. In a statement Tuesday, Reinert stressed that with .96% of growth in the tax base, the net increase of the levy will be 2.65%, which is less than inflation and lower than other large Minnesota cities. “Keeping the levy affordable doesn’t mean we are standing still,” Reinert said. “We are making deliberate choices about where to put scarce resources including making targeted investments across Duluth. Improving neighborhood conditions, maintaining our parks, and fixing things people see and use every day.” Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert presents his levy and budget proposal to the city council on Sept. 10. Jimmy Lovrien / Duluth Media Group file photo But the additional $1.6 million raised through the property tax increase will offset only a portion of the $5.5 million deficit. Reinert is proposing to make up the rest by moving unused funds into the general fund and leaving vacant positions unfilled. There would be no layoffs, and no single department would bear the brunt of cuts, Reinert has said. ADVERTISEMENT Earlier in September, Reinert's administration outlined it would balance the budget by: Raising $1.6 million in property taxes Moving $1.8 million from the broadband fund into the general fund Saving $1.2 million through employee vacancies Raising $740,000 through an increase in Minnesota Power franchise fees Moving nearly $420,000 in seasonal park maintenance expenses from the parks fund to the general fund, but still using it for park improvements Higher compensation and benefits are the primary drivers of the increase in the city's expenses, but inflation, tariffs and higher fuel prices are also increasing city costs. A balanced budget next year won't fix what Reinert has called "the definition of a structural budget deficit." Read more Reinert proposes levy increase St. Louis County Board establishes maximum property tax levy St. Louis County Board caps tax levy increase at 6.3% Duluth superintendent voluntarily freezes pay in response to 'financial challenges' The city's expenses are expected to continue to jump 6% annually while revenue grows slower at 1.5% each year, making the 2028 budget and future budget cycles equally, if not more, challenging. "I do worry a little bit about how much one-time money we are leaning on in this year's budget because we're just going to have to fill that gap next year," At-large Councilor Arik Forsman said Monday. "But I am pleased to see that we've held the line again on expenses." Reinert has said the city needs to grow its tax base. He's also said the city plans to lobby for an increase in local government aid from the state, which, at about $32 million, accounts for nearly a third of the city’s budget. The aid has remained virtually flat for the last five years. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ROGER REINERT TAXES DULUTH By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 3h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.