DEDA approves selling option for Lester Park Golf Course - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture DEDA approves selling option for Lester Park Golf Course William Lien WDIO --> DEDA approves selling option for Lester Park Golf Course Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team The Duluth Economic Development Authority (DEDA) approved the selling option for the former Lester Park Golf Course to Oppidan Investment Co. in a vote Wednesday morning. Chad Ronchetti, the Executive Director of DEDA, said the agreement gives the developer the option to purchase the properties on the 36 acres of Lester Park Golf Course, but that other work still needs to be done before that purchase could happen. "This option agreement cannot be exercised until there is a development agreement that has been negotiated with the developer. So, there's still a lot of work to be done between now and then," Ronchetti said. "This is just the beginning. Designs need to be come up with community input and hopefully the mayor elects' input." Ronchetti said this approved option agreement does not apply to any development concept. It also does not obliges to any development design at the moment. "That's when the real work starts," Ronchetti said. "Now we have a development group at the table, that has some assurance they will be able to be negotiated with in earnest. They are going to give opportunity for the community to voice their desires (and) wants for access and other associated amenities." City Councilor-at-Large Arik Forsman, said he spoke with Oppidan and Mayor Elect Reinert about DEDA approving the selling option. "I anticipate that the final concept could look different from what we are talking about today, but, I'm really excited about the partner that we have," Forsman said. "It's important for people to understand the area that we're talking about is closest to the existing roads. It likely does not impede much of the golf course at all." If Oppidan does not agree to the selling option, the Duluth Economic Development Authority would still own the 36 acres. "I don't anticipate that we're going to necessarily see a city owned and operated golf course. It could potentially be very complementary to publicly accessible recreation," Forsman said. "The potential development is focused on senior housing, which we know is a huge need within the community that could also then free up a lot of single family homes within Duluth too." For more information about DEDA's selling option you can read more here . However, for other stories happening with you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth Economic Development Authority William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow