There could be an increase in funds coming to Minnesota’s LGA/CPA programs - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture There could be an increase in funds coming to Minnesota’s LGA/CPA programs Shalon Monroe WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5161743&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Some cities and towns in Minnesota rely on funding for a lot of that everyday maintenance comes from this local government aid. Minnesota has more than $17 billion in surplus money, and the conversations about how it should be spent are ongoing. A bill called Local Government Aid and County Program Aid (LGA/CPA) went through the Minnesota House and is aimed at increasing those budgets. At Large, Duluth City Council Arik Forsman explains how that money can be allocated. “Local Government Aid and it's a program that has been around since the early 1970s as a way for the state to invest in basicity services. So, it directly helps offset our property tax lev, so that we're getting some of those costs covered through the state instead of asking our residents and business to pay more." Representative Dave Lislegard (DFL) Aurora, proposed a bill to increase the budget for Local Government Aid and County Program Aid. "I would continue to increase local movement aid and county municipal aid to assist them in lowering property taxes, but I am not going to sit here and put a mandate on counties and cities to tell them that they can’t raise the levy. If we do our job and we continue to invest and we put this escalator in with the inflation, we will be doing our part as a state with our partner and our counties." The proposal includes a $150 million increase over the next two years, focusing on critical programs without raising property taxes. "LGA funds 30% of the city's general fund. That budget pays for many of our city staff and a lot of the different maintenance activities we would do. Some of those things are snow plowing and having police officers respond or fire office department folks respond is important to people. It's a really important part of our budget mix," said Forsman. Duluth councilors believe an increase in LGA funds could help reduce some of the challenges the city faces right now. "We have a city that is expensive to fund; we are a 26-mile long, four-mile wide municipality. When you look at all that it takes to provide those basic city services, especially when you don't necessarily have a tax base that's growing as fast as some people would like it to see. You only have a few choices, either cutting costs, raising taxes, or getting an increase in local government aid,” Forsman shared. For Related Stories: Minnesota money --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow