Duluth to evaluate its skywalk system - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth to evaluate its skywalk system Alex Sapp WDIO --> Duluth Skywalk's future to be evaluated Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Since the late 1970s, the skywalk system has connected several downtown Duluth buildings, giving pedestrians a climate-controlled alternative to city streets. However, changes to the landscape of downtown have lead to the system to be used less and less. "I think going through COVID and seeing fewer office workers, seeing people just not congregating as often and as long as they used to in the past in our Skywalk system, leaves it feeling a little bit emptier, leaves it feeling a little less alive." said Duluth City Councilor Arik Forsman, who says he's used the skywalk daily for 15 years. "I want it to be better. It's not living up to its potential. It was built for a day and age that really doesn't exist anymore." While downtown continues to evolve, many still believe the skywalk system has a place in the city. “We still need that strong connection to the DECC for our events and our conventions. And also, most importantly, we want to make sure that people feel safe in getting around.” Explained Kristi Stokes, president of Downtown Duluth, an organization that looks to foster development in the area. Lower foot traffic isn't the only issue &#8211; user safety is often cited as a concern. "I think more people would be in it if it had a reputation of being safe for everybody," Forsman said, "If you walk across somebody smoking drugs off a tinfoil in the Skywalk system, which is not uncommon at times in the Skywalk system, that's uncomfortable and also arguably unsafe.” For others, skywalk safety means something different &#8211; getting people off the sidewalks. “There really is not a safe and accessible way to get from downtown to Canal Park if you are a pedestrian on street level," said Kevin Swanberg, another daily user of the Skywalk. "You have to cross multiple busy intersections and multiple lanes of traffic. The safest way to walk from downtown to the deck for a Bulldog game or an event or anything like that, is that Skyway.” Getting people off the sidewalk, however, is a concern for those street-level business owners, who worry about reduced foot traffic. "We just want to be real careful about what we do," Stokes explained, "How do we make sure we activate that street level and allow this to be another level that's still used for pedestrian traffic? Maybe it's different types of tenants. Maybe we attract more artists to that area. Those are just things that we really have to think about." They'll have a few months to think about it, as Forsman and his fellow councilors approved a resolution for an evaluation to be made on the skywalk to determine its future on February 24. That resolution calls for city administration to make a report and recommendations within six months. "The Skywalk system has been due for a good hard look for a while now, and that's what this is." Forsman said. For Related Stories: Duluth Skywalk Downtown Duluth Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow