Hawk Ridge Association is asking for oversight in rezoning request - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Hawk Ridge Association is asking for oversight in rezoning request William Lien WDIO --> Hawk Ridge Association is asking for oversight in rezoning request The Hawk Ridge Association is asking for oversight from the Duluth City Council with the rezoning request for the Bald Eagle Estate project. There are several housing projects in the works right now in Duluth. Although there's concern about how to move forward with rezoning a new housing development, the Bald Eagle Estates near Hawk Ridge, the Hawk Ridge Estates Association is asking the Duluth City Council to reject the rezoning request for the project. Paula Tsufis, the Vice President of the Hawk Ridge Estates Association says she and other residents aren't against new housing. Although they want the future homes to meet specific criteria similar to the neighborhood zone. "We welcome new development up there. We just want it done in a responsible fashion and transparently," Tsufis said. "All of Hawk Ridge estates are 30 foot homes. They're tucked into the hillside. It was really nicely done by the city 20 years ago. So there's really no need to rezone it from our one to this residential plan. And there's a lot of drawbacks to doing that." Tsufis says she and other members of the Hawk Ridge Estates Association want more oversight with zoning for Bald Eagle Estates. Arik Forsman with the Duluth City Council says they have made some changes to the developer's plans. "The original proposal that the developer had asked for was a 45-foot height limit," Forsman said. "Which was quite a bit higher than what we're talking about. Which is either 30 or 35 feet, somewhere around there now." The Duluth City Council will meet on Monday to discuss the zoning ordinance. Forsman says there's still time for the Duluth City Council to deliberate on the issue. "You always have to look at the specifics, when you're talking about a particular plot of land and the rules in our comprehensive plan and our zoning code. So all that stuff comes into play," Forsman said. "You have to balance those neighborhood concerns, that are valid and reasonable, and what's the reasonable thing to do from an entire city perspective." For more information about the Hawk Ridge Estates Association you can read more here . Also for the story about the Bald Eagle Estates project you can read more here . For Related Stories: developments Duluth Hawk Ridge William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow