Saved from https://stevehiltonforgovernor.com/policies/healthy-food-for-kids (rendered page text, built-in browser, 2026-10-07)

POLICY

MAKING CALIFORNIA THE WORLD LEADER IN HEALTHY FOOD FOR KIDS

← POLICY ARCHIVE
MAKING CALIFORNIA THE WORLD LEADER IN HEALTHY FOOD FOR KIDS
STEVE HILTON’S PLAN FOR HEALTHY CALIFORNIA FOOD IN SCHOOLS
OVERVIEW

California is the food capital of America. California grows it. California pays for the meals. Yet too often California kids are fed ultra-processed junk trucked in by giant out-of-state food-service companies. That is insane.

California already guarantees free breakfast and lunch to every student who wants one. Now it should guarantee that at least one of those meals is fresh, healthy, and 100% California-sourced.

As governor, Steve Hilton will build on the great progress that has been made under Gavin Newsom, including efforts spearheaded by Jen Newsom, to make this vision a reality. Programs like Farm to School and the KIT program (Kitchen Infrastructure and Training) provide a strong foundation. Now we need to finish the job and bring these benefits to every school district, every school, every student, every day.

We are the richest state in the richest nation on earth, with the most fertile farmland and best, most innovative agriculture industry on the planet. We grow the healthy food that we should want people to be eating: produce, fruit, nuts. Our tax dollars should be supporting both the health of our children and the health of our ag industry and our farmers, many of whom have been working the land here for generations but are now struggling thanks to bad policies on water, energy and labor regulation.

There is no reason why California shouldn’t be the undisputed world leader in healthy, local food for kids. Decades ago, Alice Waters in Berkeley sparked a global food revolution - simple, fresh, local, seasonal - and with her Edible Schoolyard movement led the way for the revolution to embrace our schools as well.

Now there must be no excuses and no delay. No state money for ultra-processed food. No giant food-service company getting state contracts to serve out-of-state food or junk. And every child should get the chance, the knowledge, and just as importantly the time, to grow, cook, eat and understand real food.

THE PROBLEM

California schools will serve nearly one billion meals this year. That is enormous buying power. California produces the food that nourishes America: nearly half the nation's vegetables and more than three-quarters of its fruits and nuts.

So why are California kids not eating it? Why are California tax dollars flowing to huge industrial food-service companies whose business model is food made for shelf life, not health? Why are parents checking every ingredient while California farms can grow almost everything a child needs to eat well?

Jennifer Siebel Newsom has done fantastic work championing the Farm to School program. It is exactly what we need, and now should be expanded and extended. Corollary programs like KIT (School Kitchen Infrastructure and Training) and of course School Meals for All should work in closer harmony, with greater reach.

The Newsoms have also begun the vital work to get ultra-processed food out of school meals. But the law does not fully take effect until 2035. A child starting kindergarten today could graduate before the job is done. Childhood obesity, anxiety, diabetes, and chronic illness should not wait for another decade of reports and roll-outs.

California should be the good food capital of America and indeed the world. It is absurd that this is not already true in California schools.

WHAT STEVE WILL DO
A HEALTHY CALIFORNIA MEAL IN EVERY SCHOOL, EVERY DAY

Every school will serve a healthy meal every day that is 100% California-sourced. Not occasionally. Not only in districts with a grant writer. Every day. Steve will build on Farm to School but set one standard for the whole state: food grown, raised, or made in California. This would be a massive win not only for our children but for our great farmers and ranchers in California. Steve will lead a new effort to tighten up and enforce definitions, to track the food that ends up in our schools, and reject any federal regulations or procurement rules that stand in the way of California’s ambition. (Of course there will be a very small number of food items that cannot be 100% California-sourced, and such limited exceptions will be permitted.)

NO CALIFORNIA TAX DOLLARS FOR ULTRA-PROCESSED FOOD

Steve will end California state spending on ultra-processed food for children. This has already been legislated but as so often in California, is not properly implemented or enforced. One of the barriers is the lack of an agreed-upon definition. As governor, Steve will fast track the definition and the ban, prioritizing the voices of families, farmers and health professionals, not the Big Food lobby. And in order to fully implement the ban on Ultra-Processed Food, we also need to fast-track fresh food preparation infrastructure and training.

PUT CALIFORNIA FARMERS FIRST

Steve will end state contracts with giant industrial food-service providers that use ultra-processed food or food from out of state to feed California children. California will use its buying power to support California farmers, ranchers, fishers, food makers, and regional kitchens. California grows it here. California should serve it here. Steve will work with the federal government to make sure there are no barriers to full implementation and funding. And Steve will work directly with farmers and their representative organizations to create close partnerships for direct sales to schools and other state-supported institutions, ensuring both a guaranteed California market and a better price.

AN EDIBLE SCHOOLYARD AT EVERY SCHOOL

Alice Waters’ pioneering Edible Schoolyard initiative is a beautiful and practical example of how creative thinking can transform attitudes to food and nutrition, as well as teaching valuable life skills. The Edible Schoolyard concept teaches children how to grow food, cook and prepare fresh, healthy meals, and inform their wider education through food. It’s also about time and human connection: taking the time to sit down and eat a meal together is such an important part of our lives that is being squeezed in a world of convenience and delivery apps. If we can foster food and meal-centered wellbeing at school, it would be a tremendous benefit to our society.

As governor, Steve will push for a culture in schools that prioritizes food, food education and proper time to eat together. Specifically, the goal will be to see some form of Edible Schoolyard project in every school, adapted to the space it has. Children should have the chance to grow food, taste food, learn to cook it, and understand the connection between a healthy meal and a rich, healthy life with strong human relationships.

PARTNERSHIPS WITH LOCAL RESTAURANTS AND CHEFS

Another massive untapped resource for the goals laid out in this paper are our great local restaurants and chefs. They have so much to offer, not just in the school setting but including opportunities for work experience, skills training and personal development. Steve will work with restaurants, chefs, and their professional and representative organizations to foster ties between local restaurants, chefs - whether working or retired - and local schools.

GOOD FOOD CAPITAL OF THE WORLD

California does not need another program with a nice name and a stack of press releases. It needs a governor who sets a clear goal and helps make it happen in a hands-on, practical way. Healthy, California-sourced food in every school, every day. California: the good food capital of the world, in every way. That is the promise.

← Back to all policies
