Tomanek, Awal win Council At-Large seats - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Tomanek, Awal win Council At-Large seats Mariam Mackar --> [anvplayer video="5067807&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Terese Tomanek and Azrin Awal are voted into Duluth's City Council At-Large seats. Tomanek is an incumbent to the position though this is her first time running for the role. She was appointed in June of 2020 after Barb Russ stepped down due to health concerns. She has served on many boards and commissions locally and worked as a chaplain for Essentia Health and the former Hills Youth and Family Services Awal is a current University of Minnesota-Duluth student attaining a degree in public health. She advocates for the Homeless Person's Bill of Rights and founded the UMD chapter of the NAACP. A third candidate, Joe Macor, was also campaigning for an At-Large seat. He runs an adult foster care facility for developmentally disabled adults in the Fond Du Lac neighborhood and is a fourth-generation Duluthian. He serves as the co-vice president ofo the Irving Community Club. Tim Meyer was listed on Tuesday's ballot, but he withdrew from the race Aug. 30. Meyer states a lack of resources and time were reasons for exiting the race, but his decision was made too late for his name to be taken off the ballot on election day. Unofficial results show Tomanek recieving 7,959 votes, sitting at 36% and Awal recieving 6,882 votes with 31% of ballots. Terese Tomanek and Azrin Awal are voted into Duluth City Council's At-Large seats --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed