Four candidates advance in Duluth City Council At-Large race - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Four candidates advance in Duluth City Council At-Large race By WDIO --> Four candidates have advanced to the November ballot for the two Duluth City Council At-Large seats. Incumbent, Terese Tomanek received 34% of the votes, followed by Jordon Johnson with 26%, Derek Medved with 23%, and Asher Estrin-Haire with 9%. These results were as of 12:30 a.m. on Wednesday, August 13. Voters will next decide between the four candidates for the November General Election and select two of them to fill two Duluth City Council At Large seats. Zachary Moder received the least amount of votes and will not proceed to the November ballot. U.S. Senate &#8211; Michigan (D) Votes Abdul El-Sayed (D) 0 0% Haley Stevens (D) 0 0% Mallory McMorrow (D) 0 0% Precincts Reporting: 0 of 3895 | 0% Last Updated: 2026-10-05 18:17:19 Full Results Refresh Results Prior to the primary, WDIO interviewed the candidates one-on-one on why they want to fill the seats and what their priorities would be. Terese Tomanek Terese Tomanek is the only at-large incumbent running for re-election. First appointed to the council in 2020, she is a Woodland resident, and a retired Chiropractor and Chaplin. Terese Tomanek Why do you want this seat? "I think we still have a lot of work to do and I have the experience and the relationships to continue doing the work we've done. I was honored to be elected president of the council by my fellow counselors. We have a really good working relationship with so many diverse groups in the city, with the administration, with nonprofits, with unions, with citizens, and I can get some work done and that's really important to me. I love this city. This city has been good to me and I want to give back." During council meetings, citizens can address the council, many doing so passionately about the issues that matter to them and the city. How do constituent voices impact your decision making? "It's really important that we listen to every voice. So when people come and show up, that's really important. We might have 100, 130 people, but we have 88,000 residents in Duluth. And so we need to take all of those concerns into consideration. So each counselor does a lot of studying. We make sure that we have conversations with the diverse groups that might be impacted by the decisions that we make. And we take that all into consideration because we have what's called a representative government. We don't vote our own views. We try and get the opinions of the majority of the people in our district or for me, the city at large and take that all into consideration and vote what's best for our constituents and for our city." What would be some of your priorities, if re-elected? "I'm really looking forward to continuing three things. And those are vibrant neighborhoods, the budget and community safety. As you know, on every level of government, the budget is going to be really tight from federal, county, state and the city. We're going to have a really tight budget this year. And we need to be really diligent about how we spend taxpayers money. We've been fixing potholes at an unprecedented rate. Same with fixing our streets. Those are all things that are so important in addition to providing housing for as many of our citizens as we can. Community safety, I'm a proponent of supporting our police and fire and life safety. We voted for funding for our crisis response team. I have voted for money to replace lead lines. We started with schools and childcare centers because those are really important to have healthy water. And then started replacing lead lines out in Gary and now in Central Hillside. So all of those things are really important issues that we've really begun work on, but we need to continue and that's really important." Where do you see Duluth in the year 2030 and how do you think we get there? We are really working on being carbon neutral by 2030 and we've done a lot of work. We have a great sustainability officer. We have worked with Minnesota Power to try and get their carbon footprint down. We need economic development really desperately in Duluth because if we can develop our tax base, our commercial tax base, that will take some of the pressure off of our homeowners who are really concerned about the amount of taxes that might go up. We have the county that's looking at a levy increase, the school board maybe two and the city. So we have to be really diligent in developing economic base to help ease some of that burden. I think our healthcare fields will continue to grow. I'm really proud of our universities. We are attracting really good students. We just have to have housing so that they can stay, good paying jobs." Asher Estrin-Haire Asher Estrin-Haire lives in the Lincoln Park neighborhood, and owns a fabric store in Lakeside. Asher Estrin-Haire Why do you want this seat? "I think there's a really large contingent of the citizenry that just does not get represented by the City Council. I think that once you have your life together and you're fixed and you just forget about everyone else. So I think there's a lot of people that are really struggling to reach that point where they have secure housing and their food security and have childcare worked out and things like that and I think they're getting largely ignored and if not completely ignored." During council meetings, citizens can address the council, many doing so passionately about the issues that matter to them and the city. How do constituent voices impact your decision making? "The constituents are the reason that you're serving. That should be the main reason but lately the citizens are passionately telling the City Council what they need and they're getting ignored. They're in it, they're living it, they know what they need and the city should be delivering what they need and it seems like most of the resources are going to people that don't really need it. The city's resources are going to developers who are going to make a lot of money or they're going to get tax breaks that they don't need. They're going to get incentives to come here and make things harder for other people because they're going to get those tax breaks and who's going to be paying those taxes and how are they going to make that money and with the taxes going up how are they going to stay income secure, food secure, housing secure. It's just impossible." What would be some of your priorities, if elected? "I think universal child care is important. I know that there was a bill with the state that failed. They were trying to get universal child care to be a thing. I think with the tax breaks and incentives that we give to large corporations they could definitely, especially places like Essentia, Cirrus, St. Luke's, could honestly be putting up the money to fund things like that to get single parents back into the workforce so that they can be contributing members of society and that they don't have to worry about their entire paycheck going to child care." Where do you see Duluth in the year 2030 and how do you think we get there? "Between here and now, we've got to change course immediately. There's no other way. We've got to stop the corporate ownership of single family homes. You've got to get more property owners, homeowners in those houses instead of the renters. The renters, that's what we have apartments for. We need to get rid of Airbnb and the short-term rentals. That's taking too much housing away. It's the only way we're going to get the homeless problem taken care of. A lot of the homeless are working people and that makes it even more difficult because the city council seems to think that those without houses are just trash and they're actually the people that are serving you every day." Derek Medved Derek Medved is a Gary-New Duluth resident, and former city councilor who resigned from his seat to focus on his business, a chain of convenience stores. Derek Medved Why do you want this seat? "100% my passion for community service. And getting in and being a problem solver and helping out to be part of the solution. And I'd like to say not the problem. I'm very passionate getting back into public service. And I want to finish the job that I started and right the commitment that, I told Duluthians I would commit to. And so we had a great conversation with our leadership team. And it was decided that I'm gonna run again and they have the reins. They're at the helm. They're ready to get things done and really pick up where I'm gonna put things down." During council meetings, citizens can address the council, many doing so passionately about the issues that matter to them and the city. How do constituent voices impact your decision making? "The bottom line is take care of the people Take care of the customer and offer the best customer service possible. And that means listening, to me. Really getting down to the details. And if you don't understand something, if you have questions, as an elected official, ask them, dive deeper, get into the details. And I think for me, I have a lot to learn and that's the beautiful thing about it. If you wanna know something, there are different perspectives, People view things differently. And so I'm really excited to sit down with people in today's climate and today's political climate and understand where are you coming from. How did you get to this point of view or how did you get to this decision and help me understand better? Because it is not my views that I'm running on. It's the ones to make people's lives better. And so back to the customer service portion, I wanna give them the best darn customer service possible and help them, you know, live a better life and get their point across." What would be some of your priorities, if elected? "We look at the day-to-day operations and we understand that we employ phenomenal, talented, hardworking individuals within the city, whether at the public safety, whether that's in the clerk's office, fire department, police, boots on the ground in public works. We have amazing people. Back to my business mindset is we have competition in Hermantown. We have competition in Superior. And they are looking for people just the same as we are. And we want to keep these hardworking Duluth-employed workers with us. We balance the budget. We are the ones getting in and understanding what the topics are and what details we, or what levers we need to pull for funding. And so I think that needs to be looked at as one of the big important priorities because we're going to lose people. We're losing people, the police department, fire department, they have massive amounts of overtime because we're short staffed. We want to talk about things that are important to people: housing. That's a huge conversation. And so there's a lot of good work, for that portion in every neighborhood, in every community, across the city, and housing, I think, will be one of the top conversations that I would love to figure out how we even gain an inch on progress, you know, to move that conversation forward." Where do you see Duluth in the year 2030 and how do you think we get there? "We never know what is around the corner. And I want to be prepared. I want to have Duluth, positioned for the what-ifs. But also I would hope that we can attract and retain good industry, good business, focus on economic development, but also really find the recipe for housing. People are looking for the, the apple cart to be upset. They want change and we need change. I want to take risks, calculated risks, and understand how do we, how do we make progress? And we're not going to make progress without failing. We're going to have some failures along the way, but at least we're going to be trying. And I think housing is going to be, again, one of the top priorities, because that is what is holding us back, in my opinion. I mean, so we got to find the right recipe, and there is one out there. I would hope that we're a long ways down the road or making progress on housing in 2030. Jordon Johnson Jordon Johnson lives downtown and is currently an associate director of the American Indian Community Housing Organization. Jordon Johnson Why do you want this seat? "I am passionate about having dedicated leaders and making sure that we have transparent and accountable elected officials who are willing to stand up and work alongside our community members. I think we are in a unique time politically where we have some really challenging times ahead, particularly around budget shortfalls. We have housing issues that we need to look at, exploring economic development, what that looks like. And so for me, I am a community leader in many regards, take into consideration all perspectives, work in partnership really well. And so I feel like I will be a very effective elected official city council at large and have a comprehensive vision of what our city would look like and would love to work with people to kind of make that happen." During council meetings, citizens can address the council, many doing so passionately about the issues that matter to them and the city. How do constituent voices impact your decision making? "The voices are really important to take into consideration. I've been at city council meetings where those chambers are packed for the people on various issues. And it's important to listen to everyone's voice and to hear what people have to say, the concerns they have and perspectives they bring. I think one of the beautiful things about being at-large is you kind of take into consideration everyone's kind of voice and consideration and what they're bringing to that conversation to make decisions. And there are times where we have to make the difficult decisions and that's just the reality of what elected official is about and being engaged in. And so I value our constituents' perspectives, ideas, concerns, and listen to them in all respects. Sometimes you won't always please everyone and that's the reality, but I always work in the best interest of all of us and to benefit everyone in our city because I believe in our city and what we have to offer here." What would be some of your priorities, if elected? Fair housing; making sure there's affordable rental rates, also looking at regulations in our city, what does that look like in regards to moving housing development projects forward. Also taking into consideration how we want to be mindful of our tenants, be mindful of the landlords and also anybody who is developing in our community that they are investing in the social fabric of our community. The other piece is community safety. I believe our neighborhoods are incredibly valuable. If there's concerns that we are noticing that we make sure that we brought, bring attention to that. I feel like too many times or too often lately, we hear of strategies after the fact. And then the other piece is kind of thinking around economic development opportunities. We have multiple business districts. And so how do we kind of think around creating a comprehensive plan throughout the city where those are threaded together very nicely. And so, and who are the developers we're bringing around housing and again, economic opportunities that they are not just kind of provided tax breaks, but they are actually invested in our community, contributing to our community in some regard. And then that also kind of leans into kind of our workforce, making sure our unions are cared for, project labor management agreements are there. And we are kind of moving in the way to kind of build up our workforce and skilled labor in our community." Where do you see Duluth in the year 2030 and how do you think we get there? "There's many projects and plans in place. It'd be nice to make sure that those come to fruition, that they are moving forward continuously. We have to think around climate resiliency. So any new development or any new housing or kind of renovation projects are taken in consideration, climate change, fresh energy, clean energy. And also, I would love to see how it's some of the buildings that might be kind of vacant or actually have some vibrant businesses in them or become residential sites, whatever that might look like for our plans, particularly downtown. There's a lot of plans in motion for downtown. I believe there's a way that we can move forward with all the possibilities. We have to be creative and we need creative people on council to kind of do that and work together very effectively and efficiently to make that happen. And I believe that we can do that. And so it's not gonna be easy, but I do believe it is absolutely possible. The General Election will be on Tuesday, November 4, 2025. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed