Tomanek to run for Duluth City Council seat - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Tomanek to run for Duluth City Council seat After being appointed to the council last year, Terese Tomanek plans to seek election to the post this fall. By News Tribune March 29, 2021 at 4:21 PM Listen Share Share this article At large City Councilor Terese Tomanek was appointed to the Duluth City Council in June 2020 to serve out the remainder of Barb Russ' term. Now, she aims to run for the office. Tomanek issued a Monday afternoon press release announcing a 10:30 a.m. Tuesday news conference at Wade Stadium, where it said she "will announce her intentions for the upcoming election." ADVERTISEMENT Russ stepped down from the council due to health concerns associated with a cancer diagnosis. Tomanek, a retired chiropractor who now serves as an on-call chaplain at Essentia Health-St. Mary's Medical Center, was selected by her council peers from a pool of 19 applicants. The following month, Tomanek made news when she led the charge for an ordinance requiring people to wear face coverings inside public spaces. Duluth became one of the first cities in the state to adopt a mask mandate that has since become a stateside policy in an effort to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Share Share this article Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL Listen to this article What To Read Next News Why supporting local journalism matters to your community Sep 25 &#183; By Kris Hauge ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 58m ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.