Terese Tomanek selected as new Duluth City Council President - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Terese Tomanek selected as new Duluth City Council President By WDIO --> Duluth City Councilor Terese Tomanek was unanimously selected as the new Duluth City Council president by her fellow councilors at a council meeting on Monday, January 13. Tomanek takes over the role from Councilor Roz Randorf. After assuming the role, Tomanek took the time to recognize the council presidents who came before her and those who helped her move into this position. "I would be remiss if I did not express my gratitude to city administration and staff who help with all our requests and provide the expertise and background we need to do our jobs and finally, many thanks to all of you for this vote of confidence to continue the work of these outstanding leaders and to have the privilege to guide and serve our city in the coming year," said Tomanek before getting to business. "Now, let's get to work." Councilor Lynn Marie Nephew was then unanimously selected as the new Duluth City Council Vice President. The council then quickly passed their consent agenda which included confirming committee assignments for 2025, increasing funds towards Spirit Mountain Chalet redesign project, approving the purchase of eight 2025 Ford Police Interceptors, and more. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed