Tomanek, Johnson win Duluth City Council at large seats - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Tomanek, Johnson win Duluth City Council at large seats Citywide voters gave the incumbent president another term, while also turning to a new face. Duluth City Council at large candidate Jordon Johnson, right, chats with District 4 candidate David Clanaugh during a DFL election night party Tuesday. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group By Tom Olsen November 04, 2025 at 11:33 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Voters turned to a pair of DFL-backed candidates to fill at large seats on the City Council. Incumbent Council President Terese Tomanek easily won reelection to her citywide post with 10,504 votes in Tuesday’s general election. That was enough to lead the field at 34.3% of the tally. ADVERTISEMENT She’ll be joined by Jordon Johnson, a longtime nonprofit leader and advocate who was successful in his second bid for public office. He also earned a four-year term with 8,515 votes, or 27.8%, across 34 precincts. Coming up short were former Councilor Derek Medved and Asher Estrin-Haire, two business owners in the city who have also appeared on local ballots in recent years. Another at large incumbent, Councilor Azrin Awal, chose not to seek a second term. Terese Tomanek. Contributed / Terese Tomanek Tomanek, 72, of Woodland, was first appointed to the seat in 2020 and elected the following year. She is a retired chiropractor and former chaplain for Essentia Health-St. Mary's Medical Center. Tomanek, who was selected by her peers to lead the council this year, has said she has a track record of supporting the city's economic base with high-paying jobs and that she brings pragmatic experience to the difficult budgeting process. She said she views reelection as an opportunity to “continue the work,” noting every new council brings new opportunities. “This year, we have a budget that we've all decided on, and it's a really good budget,” Tomanek told the News Tribune. “This council has done great work, and I’m excited to work with the next council. We have a great leader in our mayor, and we’re going to continue to move our city forward.” ADVERTISEMENT MORE ELECTION STORIES Duluth renters prevail in campaign to address delayed home repairs Nov 5, 2025 Desotelle dominates in Duluth City Council District 2 race Nov 5, 2025 Clanaugh upsets incumbent in Duluth's 4th District council race Nov 4, 2025 Duluth School Board incumbents sweep election Nov 5, 2025 Johnson, 53, of downtown Duluth, has a long background in community service. He is the associate director of the American Indian Community Housing Organization, a board member at the Center for Alcohol and Drug Treatment and a former executive director of Life House. Duluth City Council at large candidate Jordon Johnson has a conversation during a DFL election night party at Lyric Kitchen in Duluth on Tuesday, Nov. 4. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group Johnson has argued his experience makes him an effective candidate to address the housing crunch and identify economic development opportunities while navigating emerging budget shortfalls. “I am very excited to be a part of the council and just really grateful for my team and everybody who came out to vote and support our campaign,” he said. “I’m looking forward to working with all the councilors and moving our city forward.” Derek Medved. Contributed / Derek Medved Asher Estrin-Haire. Contributed / Asher Estrin-Haire Medved, 30, had hoped to make a political comeback nearly four years after he resigned from an at large seat midway through his term. The owner of several convenience stores in the area and a member of the Duluth Public Utilities Commission, he was often a dissenting voice in his time on the DFL-dominated council. Estrin-Haire, 60, was making their second bid for the council in as many cycles. A New York native with a background in fashion who owns the Stitch Craft Quilt Factory in Lakeside, they campaigned on issues around medical shortages and financial hurdles for first-time homebuyers. Results showed Medved with 7,552 votes, or 24.66% of the total. Estrin-Haire rounded out the field at 3,869, or 12.63%. Tomanek said priorities will continue to include housing and managing the difficult budget process while protecting core services such as parks and libraries. ADVERTISEMENT “I’d really like to continue working on civility,” she added, “and even beyond that, work toward kindness. Now that the election is over, I think we’re going to see a great movement in our country. We’re all tired of the bickering and discord.” Johnson said housing and economic development were the key issues he heard about on the campaign trail. People are concerned about the prospect of raising taxes to deal with budget crunches, he said. “We also really need to think about community safety and making sure our communities are safe and secure,” he said. “People should feel safe in their neighborhood or school, so I take that to heart.” Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS ELECTION 2025 DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL By Tom Olsen Tom Olsen covers crime and courts and the 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune since 2013. He is a graduate of the University of Minnesota Duluth and a lifelong resident of the city. Readers can contact Olsen at 218-723-5333 or tolsen@duluthnews.com. Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 58m ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 7h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 12h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.