Faith leaders welcome Chum&#039;s guests to the Damiano Center - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Faith leaders welcome Chum's guests to the Damiano Center By WDIO --> Chum temporarily relocates to the Damiano Center Chum's temporary and drop-in shelter has relocated to the Damiano Center while their regular location undergoes reconstruction and renovation. On Thursday, Chum officially relocated their shelter and drop-in center to the Damiano Center. Guests were brought via bus from the current Chum Shelter and Drop-in Center at 1st Avenue West to Chum’s temporary Shelter and Drop-in Center, located at 206 West 4th Street. The relocation is due to the reconstruction and renovation of Chum's 1st Avenue West location. Guests will be staying on the third floor of the Damiano Center until the renovation is complete. RELATED: Chum’s shelter temporarily moving to the Damiano Center In what they called “Exodus, Renewal and Hope in Relocation," faith leaders offered blessings and prayers for those relocating. This began with Reverend Terese Tomanek, a member of Peace Church and Temple Israel, leading prayers at the current Chum Drop-in Center location. Then, Pastor David Carlson, of Gloria Dei Lutheran Church, Rabbi David Steinberg, of Temple Israel, and Pastor Shivon Miller, of Trinity Lutheran Church, offered blessings and prayer at the Damiano Center while guests enjoyed a fresh meal and live music. Pastor Carlson spoke about the history of Chum, which stands for "Churches United in Ministry," and urged compassion in the community. "Chum was started by a meeting of leaders from 10 congregations, and today continues to be people of faith that have been for more than 50 years working together to provide basic necessities, foster stable lives, and organize for a just and compassionate community We need a just and compassionate community," said Carlson. "This partnership between Chum and Daliano housing this emergency shelter in Duluth on the third floor for the next 12 to 18 months, an effort that is generously supported by the city and the county, this effort is also about faith. It is about faith that sees the humanity of one another, including our most vulnerable neighbors." For Related Stories: Chum Duluth homeless --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed