Tomanek seeking reelection to Duluth City Council - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Tomanek seeking reelection to Duluth City Council By WDIO --> Duluth City Council President Terese Tomanek announced Wednesday she is seeking reelection. She made was surrounded by her fellow councilors and supporters on the steps of City Hall, "People, including my husband, asked me, &#8216;Why are you running again?' The simple answer is because I love this city. It's a part of me, and there is still so much left to be done." Tomanek was appointed to council in June of 2020 in place of the late At-Large Councilors Barb Russ. Tomanek was elected to the seat in November of 2021. Tomanek was elected council president in January this year. “What an honor it has been to serve as one of your At-Large City Councilors for the past five years,” Councilor Tomanek said. “I have learned so much about the concerns and priorities of my constituents by attending business group and community club meetings, serving on many, many boards and commissions and answering calls and emails.” Tomanek cited her strong working relationships with city staff, business owners, non-profits, healthcare providers, school board members and county commissioners. Tomanek highlighted some of her accomplishments: She was awarded a public health achievement award for the St. Louis County Board of Commissioners for her work during the Covid-19 pandemic. Tomanek helped secure millions of dollars of American Rescue Plan dollars for affordable housing and $1 million to remodel the Damiano Center and expand CHUM. She also helped secure funding from the Public Utilities Commissions to replace lead in Duluth's older buildings. Tomanek says she is focused on making Duluth a safe place where children can thrive. She also says she's dedicated to crafting a budget that works for Duluthians especially as costs continue to rise. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed