Van Nett, Tomanek, Awal and Mayou win Duluth City Council seats - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Van Nett, Tomanek, Awal and Mayou win Duluth City Council seats Thin turnout made for some tight races. “I Voted” stickers lay on a table at the Holy Cross Lutheran Church polling place in Duluth on Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2021. Steve Kuchera / Duluth News Tribune By Peter Passi November 02, 2021 at 9:38 PM Listen Share Share this article Local voters elected two new faces to the Duluth City Council Tuesday and returned two incumbents: Council President Renee Van Nett, representing Duluth's 4th District, and at large Councilor Terese Tomanek. Also tapped to serve were a couple of newcomers: at large Councilor-Elect Azrin Awal and 2nd District Councilor-Elect Mike Mayou. ADVERTISEMENT Voter turnout was thin, as is the norm for an off-year local election with no state or federal offices on the line. In all, unofficial results show 13,882 ballots were cast in Duluth this year, slightly less than the last similar local election cycle in 2017, when just 14,917 people voted. The most current turnout represented just over 22% of registered voters in the city. "Historically we see just about a 30% turnout in similar elections," said Chelsea Helmer, Duluth's director of administrative services. In all, 1,089 absentee ballots were cast in the latest election, about 200 more than in 2017 but nowhere near the number of early votes cast in 2020, at the height of the COVID-19 outbreak. "Due to the pandemic, we just saw a massive increase in early voting, and rightfully so just because of what was going on with the pandemic and the levels of uncertainty as we got closer to election day," she said. "I think you probably have several factors there, one being general voter turnout, but then also I think folks are feeling more comfortable about going to cast their ballot in person," Helmer said. Terese Tomanek Contributed / Terese Tomanek In the at large race, Tomanek emerged as the biggest unofficial winner with 7,959 votes. Awal finished second with 6,882 votes reported. Joe Macor finished third with 6,131 votes. Candidate Tim Meyer dropped out of the at large race, but his name remained on the ballot due to his late exit, and he still garnered 1,302 votes. The top two finishers in the at large race will advance to office. ADVERTISEMENT Tomanek, a retired chiropractor who now serves as a chaplain for the Essentia Health system, was appointed to fill out the remainder of Councilor Barb Russ's term when Russ's battle with cancer forced her to step down in June 2020. In seeking election to the post, Tomanek said she campaigned with intention. "I was doing a lot of door-knocking, but more than that, I was out at the community centers, I was out at park events, I was at senior centers. I was out meeting with people. I was at the Chamber. I was out in as many areas as I could to learn what individuals want — and that was from the door-knocking — but also what our community groups need. And I think that deep listening is such an important part of our work as council members, that that was the most important part of my work as a candidate and as a councilor," she said. Azrin Awal Contributed / Azrin Awal Awal works as a local youth advocate and is completing work on a degree in public health at the University of Minnesota Duluth. She was not immediately available for a phone interview Tuesday evening. In Duluth's 2nd District, Mayou faced off against Dave Zbaracki, a stay-at-home dad, ski coach and bicycle salesman. In his second bid for city council, Mayou, who works in admissions marketing at the University of Minnesota Duluth, earned a clear majority, with 75% of the vote, compared with Zbaracki's 25%. Mike Mayou After a previous unsuccessful bid for an at large council seat a couple years ago, Mayou said he remained engaged, showing up regularly for council meetings in the interim, familiarizing himself with the issues and serving on Duluth's Community Development Committee. Those efforts paid off Tuesday, and Mayou said: "We worked hard to the last minute. We were door-knocking at UMD until just before the polls closed. And we were just trying to turn out the vote as best as possible to make sure people were having their voices heard." ADVERTISEMENT Renee Van Nett In Duluth's 4th District, Van Nett narrowly defeated challenger Howie Hanson, a former city councilor and online publisher who sought a rematch after Van Nett unseated him four years ago. Van Nett serves as impact director for the Head of the Lakes United Way and beat Hanson with 51% of the unofficial vote to his 49% this time around, and a margin of just 48 votes separating the two candidates. "There's a lot of work that needs to be done, and the people of our district need to be represented," said Van Nett, expressing her eagerness to serve a second term. "I'm more about constituent services than anything else. So, that's what I'm pretty excited to deliver and continue to do," she said. Helmer said Tuesday's election went smoothly for the most part, with only a few minor glitches, which were quickly addressed. The most disruptive event may have been a brief power outage that affected voting at the Gary-New Duluth Recreation Center at about 2:30 p.m. Residents and firefighters quickly rallied to provide temporary backup power and lighting at the polling station so that voting could resume with minimum delay. Power was fully restored shortly after 6 p.m., and Duluth Public Information Officer Kate Van Daele said no voters were turned away, and all ballots were counted. Share Share this article Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article What To Read Next Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 58m ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 7h ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 12h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 2d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.