Our View/Endorsement: Pick Macor’s, Tomanek’s passion for, commitment to Duluth - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Pick Macor’s, Tomanek’s passion for, commitment to Duluth They share a passion for giving back and helping and serving others. DNT Duluth Media Group By News Tribune Editorial Board October 08, 2021 at 7:00 AM Listen Share Share this article They each have deep roots in Duluth. They’re invested, have run or are running businesses here, and are committed to where they live. They also share a passion for giving back and helping and serving others. In the three-way race for two open At Large seats on the Duluth City Council this fall, candidate Joe Macor and incumbent Terese Tomanek — each with clear, specific, and good ideas about making Duluth a better place — have been shining brightly since before the primary. On Election Day Nov. 2, eligible voters in Duluth can pick Macor and Tomanek to make good on their promise. ADVERTISEMENT Macor and his wife own and operate a foster care facility in their Fond du Lac neighborhood for adults with developmental disabilities. Macor also has spent 21 years as a volunteer youth sports coach. He is head of the Denfeld Junior Football League and founder of the Northland Youth Football Conference. For the past four winters, he has been the Alpine ski coach at Duluth East High School and at his alma mater Duluth Denfeld High School. He also serves on the board of the Irving Community Club and on GND Development Alliance. In addition, Macor has a law enforcement degree from Fond Du Lac Tribal and Community College in Cloquet. He’s not yet polluted by politics. His only soiree into elected service was a run last year for St. Louis County Board. “It’s through those things that I hope to bring a well-rounded perspective to the City Council,” Macor said at a candidate forum last month held virtually and co-sponsored by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. “Duluth is an amazing city. People want to be here. Businesses want to be here. We have a city that people want to be a part of. There are so many strengths in this city, the people most of all and the natural resources that provide employment and recreation for so many people. We’re leaders here in Duluth in health care, education, aviation, tourism, (and the) shipping industry. You know, all of these advantages are things we should build on as we move to the future, focusing on economic development to become a destination not only for visitors but for businesses.” To attract and retain businesses and industries, Duluth can start, Macor said, by doing more with its red tape-reduction initiative and by hiring more plan reviewers in City Hall to ensure the timely completion of projects. Effective economic development brings resources that can then be invested in our police and fire departments, fixing streets, and other services, he said. “If a person or business is ready to invest in Duluth, we’ve got to make sure we’re ready to accept them,” said Macor. “We have an amazing city with wonderful parks and amazing police and fire departments. They desperately all need funding (and) streets need fixing, so increasing our revenue through economic development is the best way to meet some of our needs.” Tomanek was the unanimous choice last summer by Duluth city councilors to replace Councilor Barb Russ after she resigned over health concerns. Immediately, Tomanek helped pass a mask mandate in Duluth that became a model for other communities and the state. She also has been a budget hawk; an effective advocate for creating child-care options; a supporter of fully funding law enforcement; and a driving force for using TIF, tax abatement, and other tools to spur housing development. ADVERTISEMENT Tomanek ran a chiropractic clinic in Duluth for 15 years. More recently, with a master's degree in divinity, she has worked as a chaplain for Essentia Health and at The Hills Youth and Family Services, formerly known as Woodland Hills. Her public service has included stints on the Duluth Human Rights Commission, library board, Marshall School board, Lake Superior Foundation board, Arrowhead Regional Development Commission, the Duluth Public Utilities Commission, the advisory boards for Glensheen and the Great Lakes Aquarium, and the City Council Intergovernmental Relations Committee, which is the council’s liaison to the Duluth School Board and St. Louis County Board. Tomanek’s focus and priorities, she said, include doing what the council can to remove barriers to employment and to equitably distribute federal pandemic relief funds. “I try to limit my priorities to two or three, but that list keeps growing,” she said. “My first one is diversifying our housing options. We need housing across the board, and affordable housing is an important part of that. The City Council has appropriated $19 million of the $58 million (in federal pandemic-relief money Duluth received) to affordable housing. What we’re going to do is we’re going to start a new affordable housing trust fund.” Tomanek recognizes that Duluth also needs housing options for seniors, young families, and others. “Economic growth depends on getting housing for everyone,” she said. Also running for Duluth City Council At Large is Azrin Awal, who moved with her family from Bangladesh to Minnesota when she was 3. She's studying public health at the University of Minnesota Duluth and working as a youth advocate. At UMD, she founded a chapter of the NAACP. She also has advocated for Duluth’s Homeless Person’s Bill of Rights, the arts, and, as a survivor herself, victims of sexual assault. A bit overextended right now, it seems, but Awal certainly can be encouraged by Duluthians to stay involved and to seek public office again, perhaps after she graduates. ADVERTISEMENT Duluth architect Tim Meyer similarly can be encouraged to continue giving back to his city. While his name will be on the ballot in Duluth on Nov. 2, Meyer announced in August his withdrawal from the at-large City Council race. ABOUT THIS ENDORSEMENT: This News Tribune endorsement was determined entirely by the newspaper's editorial board. Board members are identified daily atop the Opinion page and online at duluthnewstribune.com/opinion. WATCH THE FORUM: The Duluth City Council candidate forums sponsored by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce are posted for viewing, on demand, at duluthnewstribune.com. The link is here . 1 / 2: Joe Macor 2 / 2: Terese Tomanek Share Share this article Tags Tags OUR VIEW DULUTH CITY COUNCIL Listen to this article What To Read Next Subscribers Only Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Keep Hauschild fighting for District 3 3d ago &#183; By the News Tribune Editorial Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsements: Give Simon, Schutz, Filipovich statewide nods 5d ago &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsement: Vote yes with confidence for more school funding Sep 26 &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 58m ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.