Tomanek selected as Duluth's newest city councilor - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Tomanek selected as Duluth's newest city councilor The Duluth City Council picked Terese Tomanek to serve out the remainder of Barb Russ' term. By Peter Passi June 08, 2020 at 7:21 PM Listen Share Share this article After a second round of interviews Monday night, the Duluth City Council voted to appoint Terese Tomanek to a seat left vacant when at large Councilor Barb Russ resigned in May, citing health concerns as she continued her battle against cancer. Tomanek, a retired chiropractor now serving as an on-call chaplain at Essentia Health-St. Mary's Medical Center, emerged as the council's top pick out of a field of 19 applicants for the job, receiving a unanimous vote. She is expected to serve out the rest of Russ' second term in office, which ends come 2022. ADVERTISEMENT Three finalists were invited back for interviews Monday, including Zak Radzak and Jennifer Vossen Julsrud. But Julsrud, a rental property operator and former Duluth city councilor, withdrew her name from consideration earlier in the day, leaving just Tomanek and Radzak, a business representative and president of Teamsters Local 346, in the running. Tomanek, who is expected to be sworn in Tuesday, said she applied for the job with eyes wide open. In response to a question from personnel commission chair and 5th District Councilor Janet Kennedy about how she would deal with the budget shortfalls that have arisen from the COVID-19 outbreak, Tomanek said: "I think that's going to be the biggest issue facing us during the pandemic, and those cuts are going to be difficult and divisive I'm afraid. So, I think we need to remember those aspects of discussion where we talk about civility, we talk about listening to all parties involved, and we come to the realization, as the mayor has said, that we're going to have to do less with less. " While Tomanek acknowledged that she doesn't know exactly what the answer will look like yet, she said, "I know that it's going to take a lot of study, a lot of consensus building and a lot of input from the community." As for his decision to offer his services, Radzak said, "I applied for the position because I truly do love Duluth." That's not to say Radzak doesn't see room for improvement, however. "Duluth is moving forward. I do believe that the current council and the prior administrations have moved Duluth forward. But in the process, I feel Duluth has forgot some of the basics that is needed for a city: roads. You know the infrastructure in this town is terrible ... from the roads to the water systems. I mean Piedmont Avenue has a water break on it almost every other week," he said. Share Share this article Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH DULUTH CITY COUNCIL By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article What To Read Next News Why supporting local journalism matters to your community Sep 25 &#183; By Kris Hauge ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Local Cyclist creates competition on Duluth's steepest hills 59m ago &#183; By Brielle Zywicki Minnesota Vance Boelter's state trial delayed until May 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 6h ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.