Locals demand action from Duluth Council after Pretti shooting - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Locals demand action from Duluth Council after Pretti shooting Alex Sapp WDIO --> Citizens demand action at council meeting Duluthians called on the city council for a comprehensive policy regarding the city's relationship with ICE. Like the first, the second Duluth City Council meeting of 2026 saw an overflow crowd. With the shooting death of Alex Pretti in the Twin Cities happening just days before, many in attendance renewed their calls for the city to completely sever ties with federal immigration enforcement authorities. Several Duluthians came to address the council on the matter, and the capacity crowd responded. Local activists urged those in attendance to stand up when the speaker gave points they agreed with, an alternative to clapping or cheering, something not allowed during meetings. Prewritten talking points were handed out by members of the local chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America, describing their demands to the city council. These include ideas such as passing an ordinance requiring a policy of non-collaboration with immigration enforcement authorities, and adding the right to protest and observe ICE activities to official city code. Many, but not all speakers chose to read from the list. Nearly all spoke on the topic, however. "If we can't affect what's going on in Washington, we can affect what's going on in Duluth, and we come to you," said Duluthian David Tryggestad, "Please denounce the unconstitutional violations of ICE." Several councilors did express support for some kind of change. Prior to the meeting's beginning, a moment of silence for Renee Good and Alex Pretti was observed, along with a nondenominational prayer led by Councilor Terese Tomanek, herself a former chaplain. While no policy was enacted during the meeting, Councilor Jordon Johnson revealed that he's working on draft legislation regarding community safety amid ongoing immigration enforcement operations. "It is focused on our relationship with federal agencies, with respect to the enforcement of federal immigration laws," Johnson explained, "Our city agencies are not here for the purpose of federal immigration laws." Councilor Johnson didn't offer any specifics, but said that he expected to have a proposal in front of the council within the coming weeks. More information on the Duluth City Council, including meeting schedules, agendas, and councilor info can be found on the city's website . Copy of prepared remarks distributed to audience, councilors, and media by the Twin Ports DSA For Related Stories: ICE Enforcement Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed