Cub Scouts Pack 3043 tour Duluth City Hall - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Cub Scouts Pack 3043 tour Duluth City Hall Susan Holt --> [anvplayer video="5072988&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] On Friday, Cub Scouts from Pack 3043 spent their afternoon learning about how city government works. The scouts walked around Duluth City Hall with Councilor Terese Tomanek, learning the inner-workings of Duluth's City Hall. Councilor Tomanek says activities like these are very important, and need to be made available for kids. "This kind of activity and opportunity is really important for young people," Terese Tomanek, City Councilor At Large said. "They'll really learn about the city, and they'll remember it for the rest of their lives." Tomanek was very excited to show the Pack around the building and their first stop was in front of the pictures of Mayors past. The kids commented on how they "all are old men," except for Mayor Emily Larson. Although the kids were not able to meet with Mayor Larson, they did get to visit with a city attorney, the city clerk, and the city communications director to learn about their jobs and the government process. In learning about the city's government, Pack 3043 members earned a new badge. Cub Scouts from Pack 3043 spent their afternoon learning about how city government works.[WDIO-TV] --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed