Intelligence Briefing No. 55 - Duluth Monitor Sign in Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Password recovery Recover your password your email Search 57.9 F Duluth My account Get into your account. Login Register Search Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Search View all Newsletter Intelligence Briefing No. 55 By: Duluth Monitor Date: September 1, 2025 Share: Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Ordean Plaza, Aug. 14, 2025. Credit: John Ramos Good day, readers, For two years, mayors, city councilors, and community boosters have been promoting the renovation of the Ordean Building (and 30-plus new apartments) at the western end of downtown. Boosters viewed these apartments as a sign that Duluth was revitalizing downtown housing. Building owner Titanium Partners fanned the enthusiasm by promoting the apartments in interviews. The apartments never materialized. When the Ordean Building recently opened for business, it was as Force on Fifth, the city’s newest hotel. No public figures have objected to Titanium’s unfulfilled promises—all have stayed silent. The City of Duluth has no financial connection to the Ordean Building, which limits what they can do to compel Titanium Partners to support housing. As Mark A. Baker points out in his latest report , the time for the city to establish conditions was two years ago, before the city sold Ordean Plaza to Titanium Partners at a steep discount. The sale of the adjacent plaza was publicly tied to 30-plus new units of housing by Mayor Larson at the time, but the terms of the purchase agreement failed to establish any housing unit requirements. This is the latest instance of the city losing housing to the more lucrative short-term lodging market. In 2023, Lincoln Park Flats, the apartment building at 2102 W. Superior Street, converted one floor of apartments (24 units) into a hotel. More recently, in March of 2025, the owners of Lakeview Tower (currently under construction in downtown Duluth) were approved by the city to convert two floors of apartments (34 units) to short-term rentals. Girls and boys making noise When Deb DeLuca was recently appointed to fill former City Councilor Mike Mayou’s vacated seat, the ratio of women to men on the Duluth City Council became eight to one. Commenting on this unprecedented female majority, the Monitor posted on Facebook that the women councilors had an opportunity “to only approve good legislation from now on,” adding that “The Monitor has no doubt they will do what they can.” While plenty of readers took this post in good humor, a number of others erupted with anger at what they termed our “misogyny.” We were accused of minimizing women, of mocking women, and of not wanting women to be in positions of power. One fellow was so incensed he said he was going to spread word about us to his “network.” The female majority isn’t new. The Duluth City Council has had a female majority for almost four years—since January of 2022. The Monitor has not observed a difference in governing styles between the genders. Such a variety of leadership types exists among both men and women that we find it impossible to generalize. The following four City Council seats are up for grabs this November—all currently held by women. At-large (Azrin Awal, not running for reelection) At-Large (Terese Tomanek) 2nd District (Deb DeLuca, not running for reelection) 4th District (Tara Swenson) Spare parks Fountain of the Wind, July 15, 2025. Credit: John Ramos On the City of Duluth’s website, the Parks Department states proudly that the city has 162 parks. In July, the Monitor decided to visit them all, from smallest to largest. We started with Fountain of the Wind, a 0.06-acre public art installation in Canal Park. We thought we knew Duluth pretty well, but some of the “parks” on the list are things like traffic medians and alley easements, so this project has us poking around in places we never expected to find ourselves. We spend five or ten minutes at each park and post a video of each visit to Facebook. More than any other Monitor project, the parks project has garnered the appreciation of the public. On a half-dozen occasions within the past few weeks, people have made a point, in person, to tell us how much they enjoy our park videos—an incredible amount of positive reinforcement. We are pleased our videos bring people satisfaction. Walbanks Park, Aug. 14, 2025. Credit: John Ramos Our goal is to finish the parks before winter, but we do not know if we will be able to achieve that. We still have nearly 100 parks to go, and some of the larger parks will likely require multiple videos. We would like to post at least one video per day to Facebook. We are working on placing an archive of our park videos on the Monitor ’s website for subscribers to access. When we complete our full 162-park tour, we will publish an article on our findings. Munger Park, Aug. 5, 2025. Credit: John Ramos Subscribe Have you subscribed? We would appreciate it if you did. Our subscribers are the engine of the paper. Please visit this link to choose the subscription level you prefer. Duluth Monitor Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp a d v e r t i s e m e n t ━ more like this Proctor Proctor expands North 40 Trail, adds bridges and boardwalks October 4, 2026 0 In 2023, the City of Proctor constructed a trail loop on a city-owned 40-acre parcel on the north end of town—the North 40 Trail.... Hermantown New Hermantown Charter Commission prepares to redefine city government September 30, 2026 1 On Sept. 21, 2026, Sixth Judicial District Chief Judge Rachel Sullivan signed an order to establish a seven-member Charter Commission for the City of... St. Louis County Authorities consider enhanced charges for Mahtowa woman following death of DWI victim September 27, 2026 0 On Aug. 3, 2026, when St. Louis County Sheriff’s deputies responded to a motor vehicle accident on Midway Road, near the I-35 on-ramp, they... DULUTH DECC seeks naming rights agreement to keep ice in DECC Arena September 25, 2026 0 Although the Duluth Entertainment Convention Center (DECC) has been planning to eliminate ice sports from the DECC Arena since 2023, DECC Executive Director Dan... Douglas County As competition grows, Superior continues expansion of broadband network September 23, 2026 1 The Superior City Council approved Ordinance 23-4326 on Nov. 7, 2023, authorizing the creation of a municipal broadband utility, Connect Superior. The city broke... a d v e r t i s e m e n t Previous article Promised housing fail: Former Ordean Building now boutique hotel Next article City of Superior receives $250,000 Bunge Dock grant LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply Comment: Please enter your comment! Name:* Please enter your name here Email:* You have entered an incorrect email address! Please enter your email address here Website: Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. REGIONAL NEWS & INVESTIGATIONS PO BOX 161702, Duluth MN 55816 Email contact@duluthmonitor.com Phone (218) 391 - 8791 Links Subscribe Minnesota Wisconsin School District Outside Region Log In Follow Us Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Free Newsletter Send - All rights reserved.