Duluth City Council action at Monday&#039;s meeting - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council action at Monday's meeting Darren Danielson WDIO --> Duluth City Council Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team At Monday night's Duluth city council meeting, councilors passed the consent agenda with one vote. Major items on that agenda included $1.2 million dollars for city-wide sanitary sewer lining and nearly $700-thousand dollars for engineering services for lead pipe replacement projects in the Fairmont and Lincoln Park neighborhoods. In other action, council vice-president Terese Tomanek shared positive financial news with the council regarding the Duluth entertainment convention center, telling fellow councilors, "I'm pleased to report that the DECC did not need to use any of the $1 million that we approved last fall. And there's no need, there is no foreseeable need for the future to be using that $1 million line of credit. The DECC administration has been working very hard on keeping costs low, on finding and bringing in new business. And so far in 2024, revenue is up 8% or $400,000. So they are ahead of budget and scheduled to finish the year in the black and are cautiously optimistic." Something else Duluth residents will likely be hearing a lot about in the coming months is regarding local sports. The council passed a resolution authorizing more than $380-thousand dollars for RDG Planning & Design to design an athletic venues plan. RDG will produce a plan that would include indoor soccer, lacrosse, baseball and softball involving public-private and intergovernmental partnerships. For Related Stories: DECC Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed