Former Duluth city councilor seeks election again - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Former Duluth city councilor seeks election again By WDIO --> Former city councilor Derek Medved announces he plans to run again for the Duluth City Council At-Large. (WDIO-TV) Former city councilor Derek Medved is running for Duluth City Council At-Large. He announced on Thursday at the Gary New Duluth Rec Center, a fitting location for the lifelong West Duluth Resident. Medved currently serves on the Duluth Public Utilities Commission, and says now is the time for him to return to public service. “Now is a time for choosing,” he said. “Duluth faces real challenges—and I believe it’s time to roll up our sleeves and get back to the basics of serving people.” Previously, Medved started a four-year term on the Duluth City Council. He resigned in February of 2022 to focus on managing his chain of convenience stores, as reported by WDIO. "Serving on the council was one of the greatest honors of my life,” Medved said. “Even though time has passed, my passion for public service and my love for this city remain as strong as ever. I want to be someone who gets things done and does it the right way.” Medved is running on a platform of public safety, roads and infrastructure, and economic development. Two at-large seats will be up for election this November. Terese Tomanek currently holds one, and Azrin Awal has the other. Tomanek announced she will run again earlier in April. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed