Four candidates jockey for two Duluth council spots - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Four candidates jockey for two Duluth council spots By WDIO --> Meet the candidates: Duluth's At-Large Council Race Duluthians will choose two candidates from a field of four for at-large city council seats this November. On November 4, all Duluthians will see at least one city council race on their ballot. From a field of four candidates, voters will choose two to become at-large councilors, spots that represent the entire city on the nine-person body. Candidates for these seats include incumbent City Council President Terese Tomanek, business owners Derek Medved and Asher Estrin-Haire, and non-profit director Jordon Johnson. WDIO has reached out to all of the candidates to invite them for one-on-one interviews. All candidates were asked the same questions, to which the answers can be found below. Candidates are listed by the order in which they were interviewed. Answers have been edited for brevity and clarity. Asher Estrin-Haire Asher Estrin-Haire Question: The City of Duluth is dealing with a budget deficit, which is projected to stretch into the coming years. How do you think we can maintain a functional city government while managing a deficit? "I don't believe cutting core services is really an answer; things that work for people and give them security, like food security, housing security, income security. I do know that the Duluth Police Department had a surplus of $1.9 million, they then petitioned the city to buy a drone, but nobody was screaming that the police department was overfunded. They just went ahead and greenlit it. I think that the police just respond to crime. They don't help prevent it, and what does prevent it is keeping people secure, secure in their homes, secure food-wise, income-wise. Security is safety, but the police are definitely needed to respond to crime, but if they've got a surplus, you really have to ask why and look into their budget before cutting something that's crucial. [Taking] A deeper look at the budget, definitely, and adding more funds to the budget if we had, and we do, they're just not getting responded to, but there are builders that wanna build here that aren't from out of state. They don't want TIF money. They don't want tax incentives. They don't want cash incentives. They just want easy permitting and smooth inspections, which is something that we have a serious problem with in Duluth, but to build more homes, and they wanna build those homes, that adds to the tax base immediately, whereas if a builder from out of state does this with TIF money, that tax income doesn't really go to support the city for years afterwards. We really need in-state builders, and a more transparent permitting process." Question: Regarding city growth, what ways do you believe Duluth can work to attract both new residents and businesses? "Businesses won't wanna come here if the people they wanna hire can't afford to live here, so there needs to be housing first and foremost, and I don't think that the housing that they've focused on, which was primarily, the apartments, were a good idea. Turning them into boutique hotels after the fact was not a good idea, and now they're trying to sell that as these hotels are a place where people can live while they're waiting to find a home to move into. And then to put those luxury homes in Woodland is a grave mistake, because the homeowners there didn't want them there, and those homes are priced as luxury homes, and I really don't believe we need to be thinking about the wealthy in terms of home building. They're more than qualified to find land and build on their own and build the house that they want. I don't think the city should be focusing on building luxury homes. Businesses have to find it appealing here, but without the workers, there's just no reason. I mean, it's gotta give you a benefit for everything. To come here, and I'm sure the city will say, &#8216;yes, we'll give you a great tax incentive.' They did that to Essentia. Now Accenture's making record profits and still getting those tax incentives. And then Cirrus, for some reason, which has been profitable, the mayor was looking into tax breaks for them, and I honestly don't understand why. So when you wanna grow the tax base, I don't think you can do that by cutting taxes for the businesses and letting all of us pick up the slack. It's hardly fair." Question: A report released this summer showed the scope of Duluth's housing problem. What do you think city government can do about this issue? "They can return the phone calls from the Minnesota builders that have contacted them. They've ignored all of the proposals that have come to them for building homes, building homes in all income levels, building affordable homes. The mayor sent away the sports dome proposal. Now it's being built in Proctor, and they're gonna get that development. I think that if the city could just set aside the ego and work with the people who bring these deals to them, it would work much to their advantage rather than trying to save face with a bankrupt developer that he's still willing to work with." Question: Councilors are the closest elected representatives to the average citizen in terms of accessibility. Given the on-going political division throughout the country, how do you think you can foster productive and civil dialogue? "I believe that everybody's worth knowing, everybody's worth talking to, listening to, conversing with, and with transparency and open lines of communication, callbacks, messaging back, texting back, that's something that's sorely missing with the administration now. You can't reach anyone. I mean, I've had good luck reaching two particular counselors. I've had the worst luck trying to get ahold of anybody else, and the mayor is completely impossible. There is no way to reach him. He doesn't listen, he does not communicate. He's only in his office maybe one hour a week on a Friday, and it's impossible to even reach him then." Question: What is your final pitch to Duluth voters ahead of election day? "It's important to look for somebody who's going to represent the city as a whole, and they're responsible in every district, and what's gonna benefit everybody, and to just stop looking at the bullet points, and the, &#8216;oh, look what I did, I adopted a dog,' or &#8216;I've been married and lived here my whole life.' Look at who has a plan. Look at who has an idea that makes sense to you to move forward and make things better, because if things aren't better for you,a bullet point isn't gonna change that. "Look for somebody with a plan who's willing to listen to you, and it doesn't have to be me. People don't have to vote for me, but they do have to vote, and that's the only way we'll ever see change." Derek Medved Derek Medved Question: The City of Duluth is dealing with a budget deficit, which is projected to stretch into the coming years. How do you think we can maintain a functional city government while managing a deficit? "Last time I was on council, we talked a lot about agreeing, and it's hard for a group of individuals to agree. First and foremost, and that's the beautiful thing about council, is you have individuals with different mindsets and understandings and goals of what they wanna focus and work on. I think, first and foremost, we need to understand what the core city services are. It's a buzzword we talk a lot about, but what is it. Are we talking about police and fire? Are we talking about, of course, public utility, parks, recreation? So we need to identify, in my opinion, what those are as a council and as an administration and move forward from there. We're gonna be doing things, in my opinion, that we've never done in our past. We're creating a new path forward. We talked about a pandemic just a little bit ago, that Duluth did not see that coming. Nobody globally saw that coming. And so we're, in my opinion, still recouping from that. You know, we had a tax hike when I was on last time I supported that because of the fact, safety was the main focus during that time. Funds from the government, from the state, were not a guarantee. And so there was a lot of unknowns, but safety was first and foremost during that time for me. But moving forward, we gotta understand, like I said, what the core city services are and how do we creatively and mindfully move forward, keeping jobs in mind, making sure that people are staying employed, good individuals are not losing their positions, and then moving forward from there. But at the end of the day, economic development, that is the biggest lever that we have. We wanna encourage growth. And of course we see a lot of Hermantown in the news around a very controversial project, but we will be there. It's not if, it's when. We will have a conversation about growth and development like that. And we gotta know how we're gonna move forward and have the community involved in the conversation, maybe beforehand. And so we can understand how economic development will be a part of that pie and moving forward. Question: Regarding city growth, what ways do you believe Duluth can work to attract both new residents and businesses? One thing that I love is the western part of town. Born and raised there. The steel plant was a major economic driver. I mean, it built half of the western part of town, built Morgan Park. And so when we look at big industry like that, of course the pros and cons come with it. Of course we just seen the major cleanup of that facility or that property. And so the cons are there are after effects of major industry. But we have vast amounts of land in the western part of town. And as Janet Kennedy, the district counselor, I've always loved how she said, &#8216;West Duluth, we're open for business.' Because we have the leg room, the ability to welcome Amazon. We have Ikonics out there. We have the Foundry, ME Electric. So we're positioned in my mind for large scale growth out there. But again, it is truly understanding of what are the needs, ? Is it rail access? Is there gonna be water access or the of course utilities as far as power and electric? That what is the perfect match and how do we fit them into our portfolio or our city? Keeping the public in mind and making sure that their input is valued and heard. And we leave no detail left out. It was Rolling Stones magazine, I think was, named Duluth, one of the climate change, number one climate change refuges in the country. But we have a lot to offer just being Duluth, right? We have the view. We have a lot of outdoor recreation. But I think we need to have a good clear understanding as a council and as a city of what our goals are. The budget, of course, because taxes is not a great thing to talk about when we're increasing, increasing. As we mentioned before, we have Hermantown, we have Proctor, we have Superior. We have a lot of other municipalities that are in competition with us for those residents. And so, we'll probably lead into the conversation about housing, but that is gonna be another big conversation around industry and housing and how they need to go together because we need housing to attract industry that will house their employees." Question: A report released this summer showed the scope of Duluth's housing problem. What do you think city government can do about this issue? "We are not in the home building industry. And so, we need to rely on those individuals who the developers and the builders that know their way around that department, but how do we work on permitting? How do we work on attracting? And I don't wanna say even TIF, that is something that I don't even wanna bring up because it should not be part of the conversation. It should be an ingredient that is left out of a recipe because we're looking to grow the tax base and not further things in that department moving forward. But we need to find a developer and have a format or a recipe that works. And so, I think permitting is gonna be the big thing for the city, but also understanding infill lots. There's things within the city that we can work on regarding city land to attract developers. DEDA did a phenomenal project. When I was on, there was infill lots and there were some parcels that were put out for bid for developers to have ideas on tiny homes. There were some in Gary, there was some out in Lakeside and a few of them fell through. They did not happen, of course, but revisiting that conversation because there are people out there who are very creative developers that have ideas that of course the city does not have any idea or interest in exploring further, but those are the individuals we need to focus on to grow the housing stock in our community." Question: Councilors are the closest elected representatives to the average citizen in terms of accessibility. Given the on-going political division throughout the country, how do you think you can foster productive and civil dialogue? One, listening, understanding, and truly, what is that famous saying is there are two ways to listen. Listen to respond and just listen to understand. And I think listening to understand and getting together with community stakeholders and just people in general who have concerns or an idea, that matters. And so I think first and foremost, I wanna listen and build those relationships, whether we agree or not. Just learning from people who live differently, view things differently, is gonna be the biggest thing moving forward. I have friends, I have people within the city that I asked them, &#8216;hey, what do you think about this? Or what about that?' And I would have never thought about it, viewing it or thinking of it through that lens or that angle. And so that'll be really important to understand communicating moving forward. And as you said, my last term, it was very interesting where I did not build relationships. We were through a virtual screen. And so we did not have the ability to have those in-person conversations. So that's gonna be a huge thing moving forward, building relationships with colleagues and the community in person." Question: What is your final pitch to Duluth voters ahead of election day? "My day job, it's budgeting, right? I've built an organization. We have a phenomenal group of individuals and it's very similar to city government or just government in general; budgeting, making sure we're employing amazing people, taking care of our customers. And so I think that is the biggest thing I wanna shine the spotlight on. I have a track record in budgeting similar to the city. And so I would love to bring that to council and make sure that we're focusing on the budget, the details, taking care of our residents, and also the individuals who show up every day, the boots on the ground who serve our city." Jordon Johnson Jordon Johnson Question: The City of Duluth is dealing with a budget deficit, which is projected to stretch into the coming years. How do you think we can maintain a functional city government while managing a deficit? "That's a big question. And it's hard to say what it'll exactly look like until the end of the year, until it's fully approved. But I think one of the things I think about the budget and the deficits that we're facing, it's, we're in a particular moment where we're facing many deficits on multiple layers. And so how do we come together as city councilors? How do we come together with our other elected officials, whether it's county or school board, and really think through what are the needs within our community? And how can we really examine and analyze and look at a long-term strategy in regards to budget deficits? And what makes the most sense into what we're investing in at this moment, at this time, and take a layered approach kind of in the coming years? And so what that exactly looks like, it's unsure. But I think one of the things I'm really committed to is making sure that our working families or people in our community are not carrying the weight of that deficit. And so the best that I can, that is what I'm focused on is ensuring that our working families and community members are not kind of taking on additional whatever that might look like. In regards to trying to flatten out our budget." Question: Regarding city growth, what ways do you believe Duluth can work to attract both new residents and businesses? "I think housing, and economic development go together. And so we're really short on our housing within the community to attract future people who might want to move here to build that kind of tax base. And for me, [we] have to look at what does economic development look like in our community? And so it's not just based around a tourist tax or additional sales tax, but what do we want to attract as the economy bolsters and focus on some of our local potential opportunities we have here to build out our economic development opportunities? I think there's a lot of opportunities ahead that we haven't necessarily fully explored. And I'm interested in bringing for creative solutions. In regards to how we bring and attract and people want to invest in our economy, but also make sure that that investment is also investing in the social fabric of our community. So it goes back to the previous question of around the budgets and what people might need in the coming years. And so how can we kind of link those together and weave those together? So we are kind of, again, taking a strategic approach moving forward in regards to addressing our revenue generators as well as ensuring that we have a budget that works for everyone." Question: A report released this summer showed the scope of Duluth's housing problem. What do you think city government can do about this issue? "It goes back to people moving into our city, attracting future leaders, attracting different businesses, skill sets, people within the academy. And so for me, housing is multi-layered as well, multi-tiered. And so how do we provide housing options for our elders? How do we provide housing options for people who are on-house or moving into transitional or becoming homeowners? And some of that has to go with what are our zoning and regulation laws? So how are we looking at maybe revisiting those regulations and zoning laws, not to compromise any of our existing safety mechanisms or future traction towards clean energy or kind of modernizing our homes, maintenance-free, housing opportunities? So I think it's really important to kind of, again, take a really critical lens in regards to what is our housing approach? How do we do it in a thoughtful way in regards to meeting the needs of multiple people and that it creates affordable, accessible housing options? I think there's also what's called a missing middle housing, which is options regards to having green space, having kind of community spaces created where there's, which goes back to some of the zoning regulations and laws. And so how do we create this kind of very broad base of kind of housing and attracting developers who want to develop in our community as well as invest in our community at the same time?" Question: Councilors are the closest elected representatives to the average citizen in terms of accessibility. Given the on-going political division throughout the country, how do you think you can foster productive and civil dialogue? "I think it's a vital component of where we are at. And as one of the reasons I decided to run is because I'm a civic engaged leader, I'm really immersed in the community and really feel that it's important that we have really accountable, dedicated, transparent leadership. And when there is a divide as we are facing or the challenges that we're facing ahead, I'm somebody who brings a voice that potentially many people have never had a voice around the table with lived experience, as well as can provide and listen to all perspectives. And so it's not one or the other. We are in a time where we need to come together and unite around many issues and figure out how we work together in order to move forward. I don't want us to become stuck as a city in regards to potential differences or tensions that exist. We have to figure out how we collectively work together. And I'm really good at that and know how to do that and be mindful that I'm also not willing to compromise my values and integrity along the way. My integrity and values are based in the community and working alongside the community and standing alongside the community for what's right. That's gonna benefit all of us. And so I feel I'm a really strong, solid person who's kind of grounded and can hold true to what I care about, what our community cares about and listen to the multitude of perspectives. Because also the reality is when you have people around the table who have multiple voices, that's where some of the best ideas come from. And when you can understand and kind of grasp where people are coming from and their perspectives are coming from, we can actually probably do a lot of really exciting things. We have to also think around our generations to come. What we do now today is gonna impact our future generations. And so I always say, what's the legacy we want to leave at this moment moving forward? And as an elected official making decisions, that's a lot of what I think about." Question: What is your final pitch to Duluth voters ahead of election day? "I want you to do what you believe in and part of it's like knowing, do your civic engagement, like figure out, do your research about who's running, listen to what the values are that people bring. "I am invested in our community. I was born and raised here. I'm committed and I've dedicated my life to doing work in public service. And I will continue to do that throughout my lifetime. And so my final pitch is, vote and vote from your heart, but also vote with an intellectual kind of analysis of who is gonna do the best for the long-term." Terese Tomanek Terese Tomanek Question: The City of Duluth is dealing with a budget deficit, which is projected to stretch into the coming years. How do you think we can maintain a functional city government while managing a deficit? "I've had an opportunity along with Councilor Forsman, the finance chair, to sit down with the mayor and the finance department and go over the upcoming budget. And they have done an incredible job of not taking away services, but finding ways to maintain as low a levy as we can and still provide what people need and want and expect. I think people will be really pleased with how well we've done in understanding that we need to keep that property levy low. We don't want to put a burden on our constituents, but also we need to keep people safe. We need to work on our roads. We need to keep our libraries and our parks open, the things that people love about Duluth. So we're putting that all into a package that I think is really going to work." Question: Regarding city growth, what ways do you believe Duluth can work to attract both new residents and businesses? "I think Duluth speaks for itself, and we have so many people from the Twin Cities from Chicago that want to come live here, not just because we're a climate refuge, but because we have great outdoors. We have cultural, we have symphony, we have ballet, we have three colleges and universities. We have what people want to have, and what we need is housing and childcare. We want to attract young people. They need starter homes. They need homes that they can raise their family in, and in order to do that, we need to build more, but we also need to find places for seniors to move to so that we open up those homes that they have raised their family in. And childcare, hugely important. It is such a critical issue throughout the country. We've really been working with childcare providers. We had a summit a couple of weeks ago that the childcare organization organized, and we are really trying to help them. If we can get those two things expanded, then we can expand our economic growth. We can expand our jobs, and that's what we need." Question: A report released this summer showed the scope of Duluth's housing problem. What do you think city government can do about this issue? "We are working on our UDC, our regulations for people that are wanting to build. We are allowing people to look at our downtown. How can we take some of those empty corporate buildings and turn them into housing? We have done so much in the area of affordable housing. Yesterday, I was at Harbor Highlands. We celebrated the final phase of that huge development, and in February of this year, they opened Sky Ridge Flats, affordable housing for seniors. We have Brave View coming online that will be affordable for seniors with 100 spots for child care for children. We have also opened Plover Place and another door and Brewery Creek. So we have really worked on affordable housing, and we need housing across the entire spectrum from market rate and luxury to affordable. And I think we are working on them all, and we are making good progress." Question: Councilors are the closest elected representatives to the average citizen in terms of accessibility. Given the on-going political division throughout the country, how do you think you can foster productive and civil dialogue? "It is my honor to serve as the president, and at the beginning of every meeting, I read the Civility Pledge, which was passed by our prior city council. And I always say I read it in memory and honor of former Council President Renee Van Nett, who read that. I read that, because I really hope that people will be civil in their discourse. I thought about a lot of this, and I'm also thinking about kindness, because we need to not only be tolerant or civil, we need to be kind and accepting. And I talked about diversity, that we really want to see diversity in our city. We have a new hire of Dr. Liu, our human rights officer and diversity and equity person in the city, but we also need to be very accepting of diversity of opinion. And that's why we have nine people on the council, so that we can have representation of people from all five districts, and then the city at large. We need to be able to have discourse to discuss those really difficult issues, but be kind to each other and truly listen with an open mind and open heart. And that's what Civility is all about." Question: What is your final pitch to Duluth voters ahead of election day? "Voting is such an integral right that we have to really express our opinions and what we want. My husband and I have not missed an election since we were 18, so that would be the first thing. Find out where your polling place is and go make your opinions known. And also, as it applies to my race, I think experience really matters. I have made those connections not only with administration. The mayor will take my call. I can talk to the police chief and bring the concerns of the people to officials that work with us and help to solve problems. So all of those relationships, all that experience, and all that work we do to educate ourselves on all the issues, especially from a moderate lens, looking at both sides and making our decisions in the interest of our constituents." Information on voting in Minnesota including polling places, registration status and info, and sample ballots can be found on the Minnesota Secretary of State's website. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed