Duluth Workers Memorial Day honors lives lost to job hazards, urges safety - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth Workers Memorial Day honors lives lost to job hazards, urges safety By WDIO --> Workers and community leaders in Duluth gathered to honor those who lost their lives or were injured on the job during the annual Workers' Memorial Day on April 27, 2026. Derek Pederson, president of the Northeast Area Labor Council and the Duluth Central Labor Body, explained the importance of the day, saying, "Every year we celebrate workers that have passed away." Pederson highlighted that more than 300 people die each day due to unsafe working conditions, totaling over 6,000 deaths each year. "That's too many. One's too many. So, we talk about how we can improve that," Peterson said. Pederson emphasized that workplace safety affects not only workers but also their families. "It's all about making sure that we come home safe after work," Pederson said. This year's memorial honored Ronald Olson, a Morgan Park handyman who died while working alone. Peterson stressed the importance of working with a partner and never forgetting those lost while on the job. When asked about what workers should do if they encounter unsafe conditions, Pederson advised, "If you have a situation where you feel unsafe, you just need to stop work until you can create a safe environment." He also encouraged everyone to take a moment of silence for fallen workers and to research ways to create safer workspaces, whether in construction, offices, or schools. Pederson urged workers to continue taking safety classes and to talk openly about safety, even in non-union shops. "People need to really talk about it. It's like mental health. We just need to talk about it and get rid of the stigma that you have to be a tough person to work in the trades," Pederson said. He also spoke about the importance of mental health, saying, "We lose people every year to suicide. Which is very unfortunate. There's people to talk to. There's people that are willing to help." Corey Cusick, AFL-CIO Community Services Director for Head of the Lakes United Way, addressed the crowd, saying, "Thank you for joining us here as we observe Workers Memorial Day here in Duluth. A somber observance that memorializes workers who have been injured or died on this job last year." Cusick encouraged workers to speak up if they see unsafe conditions. Pederson reiterated the ongoing fight for safer workplaces. "For more than 50 years, the labor movement has fought and will continue to fight to make workplaces safer. Yet still over 300 a day lose their lives due to unsafe and preventable working conditions. This is unacceptable," Pederson said. He reminded everyone, "No price is ever be placed on a human life." Councilor Terese Tomanek read a proclamation from the mayor's office, officially declaring April 27, 2026, as Workers' Memorial Day in Duluth. The proclamation recognized the thousands of workers who die or are injured each year and the importance of raising awareness about workplace safety. The event concluded with a reminder to remember those lost and to keep fighting for safer conditions for all workers. For Related Stories: Construction Duluth Ethan Schurman Labor contracts Mental Health Minnesota --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed