Forsman, Nephew win at large seats on Duluth City Council - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Forsman, Nephew win at large seats on Duluth City Council Forsman brings experience, Nephew housing expertise. Lynn Nephew and Arik Forsman By Peter Passi November 07, 2023 at 11:59 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — Voters elected Arik Forsman and Lynn Marie Nephew to City Council at large seats Tuesday, beating out candidates Jenna Yeakle and Miranda Pacheco in the race. Forsman was the top vote-getter and will retain his position as the most senior member of the City Council, having served since 2018, when he was appointed to replace council President Elissa Hansen, who stepped down due to the demands of her new job as president and CEO of The Northspan Group Inc., a regional nonprofit development organization. ADVERTISEMENT Nephew, a 45-year-old local Realtor, finished in second place. Yeakle and Pacheco finished out the field, placing third and fourth, respectively. Forsman, a 35-year-old Minnesota Power economic development specialist, nearly didn’t run for another council term, having recently come up short in a bid to serve in the Minnesota House of Representatives, in a race that saw Liish Kozlowski elected instead. Forsman initially said he would not seek reelection but reconsidered when colleagues and supporters asked him to run again. “I’m just thankful for the trust Duluthians showed in me tonight,” Forsman said. “And I’m just thankful I’ll get another opportunity to serve them for four more years.” READ MORE ABOUT THE ELECTION Painful decisions ahead for Minnesota school districts after failed levies Nov 21, 2023 Voter turnout rebounds in Duluth's latest election Nov 14, 2023 Roundup: Breaking down a busy week of Minnesota politics Nov 10, 2023 Judge dismisses complaint of campaign violation in Duluth mayoral race Nov 9, 2023 Nephew said she brings real experience in housing that none of the other candidates had. “And it’s such a desperate need in this community. That’s probably one of the biggest things I brought to the game. “I talked about how housing is affecting everything. Housing is affecting our economic development because we can’t do that. It leads back into the underfunding of our core city services, back into our streets and roads and the fact that we’re not fixing them as fast as we could,” she said. Neither Nephew nor Forsman were endorsed by the Duluth DFL but were supported by labor, including the local police and firefighter unions. ADVERTISEMENT Yeakle, 32, a community organizer from Denfeld, and Pacheco, 42, an addiction counselor and inclusivity consultant from West Duluth, both received DFL endorsements. “I would say that the DFL really has not listened to labor," Nephew said. "And Arik and I carried almost all the labor endorsements. I think we had about 16 of them, and the fact that the DFL-endorsed candidates didn’t carry those says something. I mean, the 'L' in 'DFL' is for 'labor,' and labor has really been overlooked.” Nephew and her husband live in the Congdon neighborhood and are the parents of four children: a seventh-grader, a high school sophomore, an 18-year-old and a 20-year-old. Forsman and his wife live in the Kenwood neighborhood with their two children, ages 5 and 8. “I’m looking forward to working with mayor-elect Reinert on his policies," Forsman said. "And I think we align on a lot of our priorities. But I also just want to say that Mayor Larson should be very proud of the work she did for the last eight years and four years before that as a councilor.” Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS ELECTION 2023 By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 4h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.