Duluth City Council at-large election results - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council at-large election results Darren Danielson WDIO --> Arik Forsman, Lynn Marie Nephew, Jenna Yeakle, and Miranda Pacheco advance in the Duluth City Council At-Large race. Duluth voters had a wide field of candidates to choose from for two open at-large city council posts in Tuesday's primary election. The eight candidates running for the two open posts were narrowed down to four who will now move on to the November general election. The unofficial tally shows the four top vote-getters from Tuesday's primary are incumbent city councilor Arik Forsman, Lynn Marie Nephew, Miranda Pacheco and Jenna Yeakle. 35-year old Forsman was appointed to the council in 2018 to an At-Large seat, and then won the same spot in 2019. Forsman works at Minnesota power in an economic development position and resides in Duluth's Kenwood neighborhood. 45-year old Lynn Marie Nephew is a licenses realtor in Minnesota and Wisconsin. She is a UMD grad and lives in the Congdon neighborhood. 42-year old Miranda Pacheco has an associates degree from Fond du Lac and Community College and lives in West Duluth and is employed as an addiction counselor and inclusivity consultant. 32-year old Jenna Yeakle lives in the Denfeld neighborhood and is a community organizer. Yeakle has a masters degree in public health. On November 7th, Duluth voters will select two candidates from these four to serve on the city council. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council election Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed