Our View/Endorsement: Forsman, Nephew stand out for City Council At Large - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Forsman, Nephew stand out for City Council At Large From the editorial: "Nephew’s expertise in housing and Forsman’s in economic development can inspire optimism for overtaxed Duluth property owners." In the Nov. 7 election, Lynn Marie Nephew (left) and Arik Forsman stand out for Duluth City Council At Large. News Tribune photo By the News Tribune Editorial Board October 26, 2023 at 9:04 AM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? In the competitive race for two At Large seats on the Duluth City Council, the incumbent and an expert on one of Duluth’s biggest challenges, increasing housing at all income levels, both stand out. Eligible voters in the Nov. 7 election can boost and solidify citywide City Council representation by casting their ballots for Arik Forsman, a five-year council veteran, and Lynn Marie Nephew, who has owned and run a real estate business for 20 years. ADVERTISEMENT Nephew’s career buying and selling properties in Duluth isn’t all that would make her an asset for the council. She also has served on the governing boards for the Duluth Housing and Redevelopment Authority, 1 Roof Community Housing, Neighborhood Housing Services, Northern Community Land Trust, Common Ground Construction, and Housing for Inmates. Additionally, she was on the Mayor's Housing Task Force. Lynn Marie Nephew “Duluth is in a housing crisis,” Nephew astutely stated at a candidate forum in September hosted by the News Tribune and Duluth Area Chamber of Commerce. “We need a strong and experienced voice. … From supportive to million-dollar homes, I've done it all. And I possess knowledge and invaluable experience. That will make me an effective city councilor to take a lead on this issue.” Forsman similarly has an impressive record of achievement and public service that helps inform and strengthen his role as an elected city councilor. His day job is in economic development for Minnesota Power, a need in Duluth rivaling the need for more housing. He has also served on more than 15 boards, commissions, and task forces — to give back and to contribute to his community. That service has included the Duluth Economic Development Authority, the 1200 Fund board, VisitDuluth board, Community Action Duluth board, the Earned Sick and Safe Time Task Force, the St. Louis County Civil Service Commission, and the Duluth parks and recreation and library boards. He was a leader of the Spirit Mountain Task Force and president of the Northspan board. And he has served as City Council president. On the council, Forsman was key in increasing more-affordable child care options, wooing back Costco when it looked like the retailer wouldn't build here after all, increasing police pay after it was learned the Duluth department offered the lowest wages in the state, and increasing the training budget for firefighters. Following his work on Spirit Mountain, the attraction has now enjoyed two straight years of profitability. “Serving as a councilor has been an honor and a privilege,” Forsman said at the forum. “The passion for public service still burns as bright as the day that I started in this role. And it is a struggle at times to balance being a working parent and all the responsibilities that come with that as well as being a responsive and effective councilor. But I know that I've done it, and I know that I can continue to do it.” Arik Forsman Contributed / Lynnette's Portrait Design Nephew’s expertise in housing and Forsman’s in economic development can inspire optimism for overtaxed Duluth property owners. “Currently, we don't have a lot of money coming in through the city, and the biggest driver for money generation … (is) economic development. But I would argue that is something that is currently not possible,” Nephew said. “We don't have enough housing units to support growth. … We need to increase the housing units so that we can actually have sustainable economic development. Increase the money that's coming into the city, and then that would … balance the property taxes.” ADVERTISEMENT Said Forsman, “We cannot continue to invest more in new services, in better services, unless we address … structural issues (in the budget). As a labor-endorsed candidate, I'm uniquely positioned to help us navigate through that, so that we do treat our employees well, we're able to retain and recruit the best, (and we also can) invest more in core city services.” Also running for Duluth City Council At Large this fall are Miranda Pacheco, a felon who turned her life around and is now a homeowner and an alcohol and drug counselor, and Jenna Yeakle, who has a master’s degree in public health, is also a homeowner, and is an organizer with the Sierra Club. Duluthians can urge them both to stay involved and to continue giving back and serving. ABOUT THIS ENDORSEMENT: This News Tribune endorsement was determined entirely and solely by the Editorial Board. READ MORE IN OPINION Editorial cartoon for Monday, Oct. 5, 2026 3h ago Pro/Con: AI deepfakes are already swamping global politics 23h ago Pro/Con: Let’s not make the cure of AI regulation worse than the disease 23h ago Editorial cartoon for Sunday, Oct. 4, 2026 1d ago Reader's View: Help at portage was appreciated 1d ago Local View: 'Changing seasons are like changing relationships' 2d ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags OUR VIEW DULUTH CITY COUNCIL ELECTION 2023 HOUSING Listen to this article What To Read Next Subscribers Only Editorials Our View/Endorsement: Keep Hauschild fighting for District 3 3d ago &#183; By the News Tribune Editorial Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsements: Give Simon, Schutz, Filipovich statewide nods 5d ago &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board Subscribers Only Editorials Endorsement: Vote yes with confidence for more school funding Sep 26 &#183; By FCC Editorial Advisory Board ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.