Lynne Marie Nephew announces a run for Duluth City Council - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Lynne Marie Nephew announces a run for Duluth City Council By WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5173049&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Real estate agent, Lynne Marie Nephew announced Monday she will run for a 2023 Duluth City Council At Large seat. Nephew chose One Roof Community Housing to make her announcement. She says her background with housing will help the city meet challenges related to housing. “I would like to see more supportive housing happening in Duluth. But we also need to think about the middle. So there’s a lot of people stuck in rental housing right now that should really be buying houses and starting to build that wealth, the generational wealth that a lot of us look for and we aren’t building that housing,” Nephew told us. According to a press release, Nephew is a mother and nonprofit volunteer. In the statement, Nephew said: "Duluthians deserve the chance to thrive, not just survive. Many of us aren't doing either right now, and our housing crisis is a big reason why. Rents aren't affordable, home ownership isn't attainable, and seniors are struggling to stay in their homes with rising property taxes. I'm running because I've worked to fix our housing problems one family at a time as a realtor and volunteer for over 20 years. But I've come to realize that if we want to bring real and permanent change to Duluth's housing market that benefits everyone, we need people with expertise like I have to step up and serve our city council. In addition to owning her own small business in real estate for the past 20 years, Nephew brings a wealth of experience serving on housing-related boards in the community. This includes Neighborhood Housing Services, Northern Community Land Trust, 1 Roof Community Housing, Common Ground Construction, the City of Duluth Housing Task Force, Housing and Redevelopment Authority of Duluth, and Housing For Inmates. Homes are essential for people to be healthy and contribute to their community. A lack of housing in Duluth is contributing to many of the problems that are plaguing our city — mental health, addiction, crime, homelessness, and poverty. I’ll put my experience on housing to work for you right away, if elected to the city council, to start making positive changes that benefit all Duluthians. Nephew moved to Duluth as a UMD student in the 1990s. Two At-Large councilors, Arik Forsman and Noah Hobbs, are not seeking re-election. Lynne Marie Nephew. (WDIO) For Related Stories: Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed