Paid political letter: Building Trades Support Nephew - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Building Trades Support Nephew Published November 01, 2023 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. This letter I am writing today is to affirm the Building Trades support for middle of the road political candidates such as Lynn Marie Nephew. In a world where we become more and more polarized everyday, Labor is being torn in half by the far left and the far right. We have seen middle of the road common sense candidates being displaced and even attacked by their own political parties. The far left is just as dangerous and detrimental to organized labor as the far right and I will explain why neither are good for the Building Trades members in the Twin Ports. When it comes to one extreme you have individuals and organizations that stand against construction projects that put our members to work, put food on their tables, allow them to buy houses, vehicles and raise families. The other extreme side of the aisle supports projects for our members to work on but all too often supports initiatives that weaken our ability to organize and jeopardize the ability to make a livable wage and family supporting benefits. For these reasons it is imperative that we stand up and support middle of the road, common sense candidates such as Lynn Marie Nephew. Lynn Marie supports Project Labor Agreements, development, and our right to organize. In a time when every candidate wants to be able to claim they support Labor and Labor supports them that claim holds true for Lynn Marie. That is why we are supporting Lynn Marie Nephew. ADVERTISEMENT Andrew R. Campeau President of the Duluth Building Trades Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.