Council narrowly passes property tax levy hike - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Council narrowly passes property tax levy hike Alex Sapp WDIO --> Council approves tax levy hike Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team The September 22 Duluth City Council meeting had a definite financial theme, with lots of discussion and debate over the city's 2026 tax levies. Those figures determine how much money the city is allowed to raise through property taxes. Once set, the amount decided upon and approved by the city council cannot be raised, though it may be lowered, something that councilors took into consideration. Initial legislation set the figure at a 4.13% increase for 2026, though Councilor Azrin Awal offered an amendment that would raise that to 6.13%, expressing concern that councilors hadn't had a chance to see the administration's full budget proposal yet. After much discussion, and a recess while councilors conferred with city staff to recalculate the figures, an figure of 5.13% was narrowly approved by a vote of 5-4, with Councilors Forsman, Randorf, Swenson, and Nephew voting no. While the increase was approved, several councilors said they were committed to keeping the actual figure as low as possible. Councilors were also charged with setting the tax levy that funds the Duluth Transit Authority (DTA). For 2026, the DTA requested a maximum levy increase totaling nearly $1,000,000, a roughly 43% increase over the previous year. The DTA chalked this up to a loss of funding from MnDOT. "To make up for that shortfall of a million dollar budget cut, we would have to look at all the different ways we could further trim our budget, more so than we did prior to our ask." explained Chris Belden, DTA's general manager, in an interview with WDIO. Examples of cuts he gave included the possible loss of routes, and some services provided by the DTA, such as shuttle rides to the city's warming center. In response to the request, several councilors sponsored an amendment that would reduce the levy increase figure by half, saying that initial ask wasn't sustainable. "We need our public transit system," said Councilor Roz Randorf, "At the same time, we must also recognize the responsibility we hold to Duluth taxpayers, and we hold as Councilors, to question budgets when we set these tax levies. And today we're pausing and we're questioning it." During the meeting, Belden was question by councilors about the levy request, and after much debate, they did pass the initial 43% levy request, with the understanding that the DTA would work in good faith to attempt to pair down their final budget. The 2026 Duluth budget must be approved by the city council by the end of December. More information about the city council including agendas and meetings can be found on the city's website. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Politics --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed