Duluth City Council elects Nephew to leadership role - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth City Council elects Nephew to leadership role Terese Tomanek passes the gavel to her successor, Lynn Marie Nephew, as Councilor Janet Kennedy is tapped to become vice president. Lynn Marie Nephew. Contributed: Nephew Council campaign By Peter Passi January 14, 2026 at 6:23 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — As the City Council begins 2026 with several newly elected members, the body has elected new leadership, per its annual custom. After serving the previous year as council president, at large Councilor Terese Tomanek passed the gavel to former vice president Lynn Marie Nephew, who was elected to the post by a unanimous vote Monday. ADVERTISEMENT Councilors also unanimously agreed to appoint 5th District Councilor Janet Kennedy as their vice president. Duluth City Councilor Janet Kennedy speaks during the State of the City address April 25, 2024, at the Denfeld High School Auditorium in Duluth. Clint Austin / Duluth Media Group file photo At her final meeting presiding over the council, Tomanek read a brief admonition to her peers. “Do all the good you can, by all the means you can, in all the ways you can, in all the places you can, and all the times you can, to all the people you can, as long as you ever can,” she said. At large Councilor Arik Forsman thanked Tomanek for her year of service as council president and for the gracious manner in which she handed over the reins to Nephew, as her successor in the role. “You led us through a tough year, and it was not lost on me that you read those ‘Tools of Civility’ that meant so much to former council President Renee Van Nett at the beginning of every meeting. And I think there was no more fitting reason why you did that than obviously the events of our first meeting of the new year tonight,” he said, noting the contentious nature of some of Monday evening’s testimony. Nephew announced council committee appointments for the year, as follows: Finance committee: Councilor Roz Randorf. Purchasing and Licensing committee: Councilor Wendy Durrwachter. Personnel committee: Councilor Arik Forsman. Planning and Economic Development committee: Council President Lynn Marie Nephew. Intergovernmental Relations committee: Councilor David Clanaugh. Committee of the Whole: Council Vice President Kennedy. Public Works and Utilities committee: Councilor Diane Desotelle. Public Safety committee: Councilor Terese Tomanek. Recreation, Libraries, and Authorities committee: Councilor Jordon Johnson. READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Subscribers Only Local Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass 2d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local One hurt, one in custody after stabbing in Beaver Bay 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.