Candle light walk honors lives lost in western Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Candle light walk honors lives lost in western Duluth Sabrina Ullman WDIO --> Candle-lit vigil honors lives lost in murder-suicide Community members honored the five lives lost in last Thursday's murder-suicide by walking eight blocks from the home of three of the victims to the home of the other two. As the community grieves the lives lost in the murder-suicide last Thursday, a large group of people held a candle-lit vigil on Wednesday evening. Community members met at the corner of 44th Avenue West and West 6th Street, by the home of Kathryn Nephew, Oliver Nephew, and Anthony Nephew. “For those left behind, may we find the courage to confront hatred with empathy, fear, with compassion, and despair, with hope," said Methodist Clergy Pastor JoJo Coffin-Langdon. The group then walked eight blocks to the home of Erin Abramson and Jacob Nephew, on the 6000 block of Tacony Street. Those close to the family and total strangers grieved together, honoring Kat, Oliver, Tony, Erin, and Jacob. RELATED: Names of people released in apparent murder/suicide in Duluth “Let us find the strength to move forward and the courage to remember that this teen spirit and this mom's love live on in us, guiding us towards kindness, empathy, and a world where we care and understand you for them," said Coffin-Langdon. On Thursday, Lake Superior College will host the memorial service for Kathryn (Kat) Ramsland and Oliver Nephew at 4:30 pm on the main campus. The event is open to the public. For Related Stories: Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed