Duluth City Council talks childcare zoning and other hot button issues - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council talks childcare zoning and other hot button issues By WDIO --> Duluth City Council talks childcare zoning and other hot button issues Duluth City Councilors discussed a zoning change that aims to expand daycare services in Duluth. After voting in Deb Deluca as a temporary replacement for former District 2 City Councilor Mike Mayou, the Duluth City Council met to discuss their consent agenda on Monday August 11th. One issue was to increase funding for the Brandon's peak Skyline Parkway Improvement Project. Also a resolution approving DEDA to enter into an agreement with One Roof Community Housing and Brae View for a new development project. Councilors discussed a zoning change that aims to expand daycare services in Duluth. "There are limited things we can do to support our childcare providers and one thing we can do is actually zoning," said Councilor at large and Council Vice President Lynn Marie Nephew. "What this is going to do is open up zoning to a variety of different neighborhoods and hopefully create some more community daycare or childcare facilities in the neighborhoods for parents to bring their kiddos to." The consent agenda was passed but the much talked about ordinance to add a transportation commission got tabled again at the meeting. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed