Public forum of Duluth City Council-at-large candidates - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Public forum of Duluth City Council-at-large candidates William Lien WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5192234&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Residents throughout the city attended a public forum of Duluth City Council-at-large candidates. Not only could people ask questions about issues impacting the city, but learn more about candidates. One of the main issues residents wanted to hear the candidates speak about is helping people experiencing homelessness. Lynn Marie Nephew, said the Duluth City Council should focus changing city ordinances, in order to build more homes. "I'm part of a nonprofit start up, we secured a building and we are creating supportive housing units for those people who experience long term frustration," Nephew said. "More of these programs need to be encouraged to help the homeless population in order to be successful. Combined with the fact of creating just more housing units in general will take pressure off the system." Although, Jenna Yeakle said the City Council should create more temporary housing opportunities and other community programs. "We need to be exploring protections for renters, which are about 40 to 50% of our of our communities," Yeakle said. "We can improve the quality of our existing housing for through rehabilitation programs." Mirana Pacheco, however, said helping people experiencing homelessness starts with addressing mental health. "Since I've been door knocking, I talked to this lady who hasn't has a college degree and she's living with her dad because she can't find affordable housing," Pacheco said. "I've heard other stories from our community members that are pretty similar and also people that are retired and they're on fixed income and they're thinking about leaving because they can't afford their property taxes." Incumbent candidate Arik Forsman, said a policy like rent control is not the answer. "Year after year. I vote for housing projects that are deeply affordable, that don't get state funding, and they don't get built," Forsmand said. "We will for the next year support them. And I have voted for every single housing project that has ever come forward to the city Council." In addition to more information about the Duluth City Council-at-large candidates, you can read more here . Also for other stories about the 2023 election you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council election William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed