Duluth considers barring single-family homes from becoming vacation rentals - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth considers barring single-family homes from becoming vacation rentals The proposed changes come after concerns that certain neighborhoods, like Park Point, were overrun with short-term rentals and that the influx of vacation rentals is eating into the city's housing stock. Park Point and Hearding Island, right, in Duluth as seen from West Skyline Parkway on Tuesday. Park Point was noted as a neighborhood with an influx of short-term rentals that are negatively impacting Duluth's housing stock. Dan Williamson / Duluth Media Group By Jimmy Lovrien August 08, 2026 at 5:33 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — The city of Duluth may propose banning short-term vacation rentals in single-family homes. In a Thursday evening presentation to the Duluth City Council, Duluth Fire Department Deputy Chief Jon Otis said single-family homes, often quite old, are not commercial properties and are not safe for transient use. ADVERTISEMENT The move would also keep more housing stock from turning into vacation rentals made available through companies like Airbnb and Vrbo, Otis said. News Duluth places moratorium on vacation rental permits The Duluth City Council unanimously voted to temporarily put the brakes on the issuance of permits for vacation rental properties Monday. Tim Allen, president of Historic Bed & Breakfast Inns of Duluth, urged councilors to step up regulation ... Jun 15, 2015 &#183; By Peter Passi The recommendation comes after the city in November imposed a one-year moratorium on issuing new short-term rental licenses so it could study existing policies and consider possible changes. “We’re trying to protect our housing stock,” Otis said. “And our most vulnerable are those single-family homes.” Existing permitted short-term rentals in single-family homes would be allowed to continue operating as long as they remain active, or until they are sold or change use. Accessory dwelling units under 800 square feet on a single-family home’s property would be eligible, and single-family homes that remain occupied by their owners would be allowed, under a home share permit, to rent out a room rather than the entire home. Ben Van Tassel, director of Duluth’s planning and economic development department, said he anticipates bringing an ordinance to the council soon, as the moratorium end date approaches. Read more There are approximately 200 permitted short-term rental licenses for vacation dwelling units in the city, but likely more than 400 additional properties that are unlicensed and operating illegally in the city, according to Van Tassel and Otis. ADVERTISEMENT “We believe that Duluth can be a model for responsible short-term rental management,” Otis said. “And it will allow responsible short-term rental in areas where short-term rental is appropriate. We will reduce and restrict short-term rental. We will enforce illegal rentals and good neighbor policies.” Recommendations by the city include adding enforcement staff, making the fire department’s Life Safety Division the lead department for permitting and enforcement of vacation rentals, adding a website on which people can look up a rental’s ownership information and a 24/7 hotline where an employee can take down complaints and contact the owner. There is an existing 110-license cap for short-term rentals; however, no cap exists in form districts, like Downtown, Lincoln Park and Spirit Valley. Before the moratorium, the concentration of rentals in neighborhoods like Park Point grew significantly. City Council President Lynn Marie Nephew said she would like to see the cap on vacation rentals go down and vacation licenses for single-family homes "dwindle" to help alleviate the housing shortage. “Would there be a way to instead ... cap single-family homes and only allow so many per ZIP code and do a formula based on percentage of housing stock instead?” she asked. Van Tassel said that was something they’ve looked at. ADVERTISEMENT “I think it would start spreading them into other neighborhoods," he said. "And I think that kind of goes into conflict with the need to preserve the housing stock that we have.” Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH CITY COUNCIL PARK POINT LINCOLN PARK CRAFT DISTRICT HOUSING GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS By Jimmy Lovrien Jimmy Lovrien covers the City of Duluth, environment and Minnesota's 8th Congressional District for the Duluth News Tribune. He can be reached at jlovrien@duluthnews.com or 218-461-9718. Twitter Linkedin Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 4h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Local Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.