New Duluth city councilors sworn into office - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture New Duluth city councilors sworn into office Kenny Johnson WDIO --> New Duluth city councilors sworn into office Three new additions sworn in for the Duluth City Council. On Thursday afternoon, the city of Duluth hosted the official inauguration for newly-elected and re-elected city councilors. The event was held at 4:45 PM, right before their first regular agenda session of 2024. Wendy Durrwachter, Lynn Marie Nephew, and Tara Swenson are now sworn in and ready to start the work. That means the new councilors and Mayor Roger Reinert have all been sworn in. Arik Forsman was re-elected to his At-Large seat. District 4 Councilor Tara Swenson has never been a part of a public election before, and she's ready for the duties of a councilor. She told us, "When I stepped out to do this I was looking for a new challenge. And so often we sit back and we think about the things that we don't like about the city or why is this happening, there's frustration with that. So I'm really excited to be that voice to moms with young children in our community." The brief event also included acknowledgement of outgoing councilors. --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed