Paid political letter: Nephew will continue to work hard for citizens. - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Nephew will continue to work hard for citizens. Published November 01, 2023 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. After working in the child care industry for over 18 years, I made the decision to open my own daycare center in 2001. I saw the shortage of childcare in our city, and know I wanted to be a part of changing that. As a new single mother, I had no idea where to start, but I knew I needed to find the best location that could be accessed by all families regardless of their income and mode of transportation. A friend recommended to contact Lynn Nephew, as she has extensive knowledge of all things Duluth, and would likely be a good resource. Not only did Lynn help me find a good location, she also accompanied me to meetings and with lease negotiations. She has continued to stay interested in this process by touring my center, and recommending clients to my business. I didn’t just receive business as usual with the goal of a transaction being reached, but also a friend and a wonderful resource who helped me reach this incredible goal! Getting to know Lynn on a personal level, and being immensely grateful to her and the many hours she put in supporting my dream, She truly is someone who will continue to work hard for the people of Duluth regardless of economic status. The success of all of our citizens is her passion. ADVERTISEMENT Jessi Anderson Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.