Duluth tackles homeless encampments, other public safety issues - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News Local Duluth tackles homeless encampments, other public safety issues City councilors on Monday night softened the originally proposed charges for unauthorized camping and approved $500,000 to support Duluth's homeless population. A homeless encampment near 56th Avenue West in Duluth. Clint Austin / 2023 file / Duluth Media Group By Peter Passi July 30, 2024 at 9:34 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? DULUTH — During a meeting Monday night that stretched past midnight and included nearly four hours of public testimony from 81 people, the City Council approved a slate of public safety ordinances, including some meant to deal with the particularly thorny issue of homelessness. Mayor Roger Reinert had proposed city staff be empowered to charge people who live in unauthorized encampments on city land with a misdemeanor, punishable by the prospect of up to a $1,000 fine and as many as 90 days in jail unless other housing is available for them. ADVERTISEMENT Duluth Mayor Roger Reinert discusses the city's proposed package of public safety ordinances during a news conference July 9. Dan Williamson / File / Duluth Media Group But councilors balked at the prospect of charging homeless people with misdemeanors for the crime of potentially having no other suitable place to go, amending the ordinance to recommend no more than a $200 fine. “This has been an important conversation and one that will continue,” Reinert said. He pointed to his election in November in a mayoral race that drew 54% of local registered voters to the polls, following a campaign heavily influenced by public safety issues. “So, it should have been no surprise when I asked our public safety leaders what they would recommend to do better on your community concerns," Reinert said. "And the result was these proposals. They represent the issues Duluthians most often call and say they want addressed, and they also represent the issues our public safety team most often attempt to address when they put on uniforms every day and go out in the community to serve and protect." more coverage Duluth homelessness policies stir debate Jul 26, 2024 Duluth residents sound off on public safety ordinances Jul 16, 2024 Duluth leaders seek to crack down on graffiti, public camping Jul 9, 2024 He noted Duluth does not have the option of charging people with a misdemeanor for camping on city land, unlike many other communities in the U.S. Instead, the only compliance tool in the city’s quiver is an administrative citation with no more than a financial penalty. “Individuals can literally tear them up and walk away, and many know that,” Reinert said. “A misdemeanor is not something our public safety team will lead with,” he said. “But when they do need to use it, a misdemeanor will create a connection to the legal system — a connection to justice, a connection that does not currently exist, a system that can provide resources and create options and also hold individuals accountable for their behavior, which sometimes needs to happen,” he said. ADVERTISEMENT Second District Councilor Mike Mayou cited a statement issued by the Minnesota Interagency Council on Homelessness: “They said, ordinances that fine or jail people for simply sleeping outside are counterproductive to solving homelessness.” John Cole, executive director of Chum, which operates Duluth's largest shelter for people experiencing homelessness, addresses city councilors Monday as at large Councilor Azrin Awal, monitors the meeting on a remote video feed. Peter Passi / Duluth Media Group John Cole, executive director of Chum, an organization that operates Duluth’s largest homeless shelter, said the number of available beds is insufficient to accommodate unhoused residents. “When you look at it, we all want the same thing: peace, safety, the opportunity to thrive," he said. "We want to belong to a place of which we can be proud. And that’s why we need to listen to each other. That’s why we need to come together to find a solution for this problem of homelessness that has been developing for the last 40 years.” Council President Roz Randorf raised concerns that the current court and probation system would be ill-equipped to handle an influx of cases involving homeless people. Nevertheless, 4th District Councilor Tara Swenson remained supportive of Reinert’s proposal to allow for misdemeanor charges to be brought against homeless people illegally camping on city land. As she had stated on the campaign trail: “Nothing changes if nothing changes.” A person tends a fire at a homeless encampment near 56th Avenue West on Sept. 7. Clint Austin / 2023 file / Duluth Media Group “Do we sit back and continue on the path that we are on?" she asked, suggesting that it was time to call for greater individual accountability. "Or are we the leaders in our community and our state who will step forward to really drive some change?” Randorf said councilors have been working closely with the local Stepping on Up initiative to end homelessness in hopes of providing new options, including sanctioned campsites where unhoused people may pitch a tent with access to proper sanitation, hygiene and support services. ADVERTISEMENT related Duluth leaders say positive changes underway downtown May 8, 2024 Duluth stretches dollars further with new housing for homeless Feb 15, 2024 Duluth advocates call on state to provide more housing assistance Feb 6, 2024 “We want this project done now. We need it,” Randorf said. “We need to create a safe place for them to go. Because ticketing isn’t the answer." Mayou referred to Stepping on Up’s plan to create sanctioned campsites as “a priority that needs to happen yesterday, essentially.” He noted that nearly 600 individuals currently are experiencing homelessness in Duluth, according to the latest survey by the Minnesota Dash to End Homelessness. “I really think, as a whole, this camping ordinance deserves more time,” Mayou said, requesting continued consultation with local nonprofit social service providers. A letter sent Monday to Reinert from 16 local nonprofit service providers, including Chum, said: “Duluth has a long way to go to address the gaps we face in housing, shelter and supportive services. Greater investment is still needed. We hope that these past few weeks represent the beginning of conversations toward revitalized partnerships and real solutions.” The council ultimately voted 5-4 to support an amended camping ordinance with less severe enforcement mechanisms than city administration had proposed. Councilors Mayou, Azrin Awal and Wendy Durrwachter voted against the ordinance, citing what they viewed as a need for more work. Swenson joined in the minority vote as an advocate for the tougher line Reinert had proposed to draw. An encampment in Duluth's Priley Court, shown Thursday, that started as a protest of Israel's incursion into Gaza grew and has been accommodating several homeless people. Peter Passi / File / Duluth Media Group Reinert noted that in the past three years, the city has invested nearly $24 million to provide more affordable housing and help people experiencing homelessness. To put that expenditure in perspective, he pointed out that the city’s current annual general fund budget is about $110 million. ADVERTISEMENT While the city does not have a department of health and human services, Reinert said that as a regional center, Duluth shoulders many of the responsibilities of dealing with issues of homeless people, often related to addiction or mental illness, as well as economic vulnerability. “The city as an entity does not have the funding to do this alone,” said Arik Forsman, who represents the city at large, noting that the additional outlay of $500,000 approved Monday will bring Duluth’s investment in the Stepping on Up initiative to $1.15 million. “We need all of our other partners and foundations, local government units, private citizens and others to step up and help close gaps to bring this to fruition," he said, "because we have a lot of other responsibilities as a city, and we have a lot of things people want to see us fund with their tax dollars. READ MORE LOCAL NEWS Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore Matters of Record for Oct. 3, 2026 "So, as we balance all those things and try to provide a safe place for people to be, I’m proud to put this forward, in collaboration with three other councilors who worked their tails off to get this ready,” Forsman said, giving an appreciative nod to councilors Randorf, Terese Tomanek and Lynn Marie Nephew. As she addressed the audience Monday, Nephew noted that St. Louis County’s Department of Health and Human Services has an annual budget of about $114 million. “I encourage all of you to put some pressure on them to be good partners in this and be a part of that," Nephew said, "because we’re not going to get this done unless we all work together. But this is a really great start.” For its part, the county already has committed $600,000 in support for Stepping on Up. ADVERTISEMENT “It’s going to take all of us to create a solution,” Randorf said. This story originally omitted Arik Forsman's first name. It was updated at 9:20 a.m. July 31. The News Tribune regrets the error. also read Duluth council sets max tax levy increase at 3.6% 5d ago Duluth OKs tax subsidies for housing project near LSC Sep 17 Duluth bars new vacation rentals from single-family homes Sep 14 Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS DULUTH CITY COUNCIL HOMELESSNESS By Peter Passi Peter Passi is a former reporter for the Duluth News Tribune. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local Bygones: Gordon Lightfoot brought ‘Fitzgerald’ to Duluth for the first time in 1976 2d ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Subscribers Only Local Park Point tries to shore up dunes by planting beachgrass 2d ago &#183; By Jimmy Lovrien Local One hurt, one in custody after stabbing in Beaver Bay 2d ago &#183; By Staff reports ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.