Duluth City Council approves Spirit Mountain&#039;s $8 million budget - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Council approves Spirit Mountain's $8 million budget William Lien WDIO --> Duluth City Council approves Spirit Mountain’s $8 million budget On Monday April 8th, the Duluth City Council approves Spirit Mountain's $8-Million budget for the fiscal year of 2024-2025. After a significantly warm winter season, Spirit Mountain needed to make precise changes to their annual budget. Duluth City Council approved the forecasted fiscal adjustments needed for Spirit Mountain. Ann Glumac, the executive director of Spirit Mountain said, their operation expenses were more expensive maintaining the slopes. "We didn't hit our revenues. We knew that was going to be the case probably starting in mid-December. So we started making plans to reduce our operating expenses," Glumac said. "We will end the year with sufficient cash to help us get started for the summer. But it won't look much like our budget from this current fiscal year that we're in." Glumac also said, Spirit Mountain will have enough revenue to prepare for the summer season's recreation. "We set aside money so that if we do run into problems. We don't have to disrupt the plans that the city has for tourism taxes," Glumac said. "So we can handle it internally, which is what we should do." Duluth City Councilor-at-Large, Lynne Marie Nephew said, the Duluth City Council approves the necessary changes to Spirit Mountain's budget because they still made a profit this year despite the rough winter season. "Spirit Mountain came to us with not much different of a budget ask versus past years, I think it's a huge win. Mrs. Glumac has done a great job right in that position over the last four years and really putting Spirit Mountain in the black. It was struggling for many years before that I think. Especially after this winter, that their budget ask is similar to that in years past. It's an amazing thing." Also for more information about Spirit Mountain's budget proposal you can read more here . However, for story about Snocross at Spirit Mountain you can read more here . For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council Spirit Mountain William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed