AG Ellison, coalition of other states, secure ruling protecting gender-affirming care - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture AG Ellison, coalition of other states, secure ruling protecting gender-affirming care By WDIO --> Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, and a coalition of 21 states and the District of Columbia, secured a federal court ruling blocking a Trump Administration attempt to restrict gender-affirming care, according to Ellison's office. According to a release from AG Ellison's office, the court said it would grant the states’ motion for summary judgment and vacate a declaration from Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. issued December 18, 2025. That declaration threatened hospitals and clinics providing gender-affirming care with possible exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid. "Gender-affirming care is healthcare, and healthcare decisions should be left up to doctors, their patients, and if the patient is younger, their parents or guardians," said Attorney General Ellison. "States are responsible for licensing and regulating the medical profession, and professional associations like the American Medical Association, the Endocrine Society, and others like them, establish standards of medical care based on evidence-based research. The federal government should not be part of that equation, and there’s no room in Minnesota doctor’s offices for Donald Trump, RFK Jr. and other politicians that want to dictate what healthcare we can and cannot receive. I am pleased to have prevailed in my lawsuit to protect essential healthcare services that allows transgender individuals to be themselves and live with the same dignity that we all deserve." The coalition filed the lawsuit December 23, 2025. The declaration from HHS Kennedy claimed some forms of gender-affirming care were “unsafe and ineffective” and threatened providers with exclusion from federal programs. The coalition argued the declaration violated federal law by changing medical standards without proper process and undermined states’ authority to regulate medicine. The lawsuit included attorneys general from California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Hawai’i, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin and the governor of Pennsylvania. For Related Stories: Keith Ellison Transgender Rights --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed