Black History Month kicks off with Transit Equity Day - X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Black History Month kicks off with Transit Equity Day William Lien WDIO --> [anvplayer video="5160932&#8243; station="998130&#8243;] Black History Month is celebrated throughout the month of February. The Duluth Transit Authority (DTA), in celebration has declared Transit Equity Day. This would allow buses in the Duluth community to offer free bus rides for February 3rd and February 4th. Duluth City Council president, Janet Kennedy, would also talked more about the importance of equity for all including Black Americans. “To continue the tradition of Rosa Parks and the civil rights movement. I'm sharing that transit systems are affordable, accessible, and that people with varying heritages and ethnicities have full access to the benefit of public transit.” Kennedy said. Henry Banks, the vice president of the Duluth Transit Authority Board, talked more about Transit Equity Day, as well as, Black History Month. "Transit Equity Day is celebrated on Rosa Parks’ birthday, which is tomorrow, February 4th. She would've have been 110 years old. I encourage you to learn about Reverend Dr. Polly Murray, to learn more about Claudette Colvin and Rosa Parks." Banks said. But what are some other ways the Twin Ports Area can become a more diverse place and support the growing black community. Saraiya Piantek, a Duluth Community School Collaborative Coordinator at Denfeld High School also shared her thoughts. "People are learning. People are acknowledging and aware of their biases. I see so many more allies and I think now it's more creating the spaces for people to make mistakes and learn from those mistakes then they're ready to work through that. And the people who are not there yet, let us know what creates need for the place because we don't have that. I don't know where the gaps are to help educate and understand our BIPOC community.” Piantek said. Saraiya says we also need teach diversity in our schools and provide quality education to everyone. “So that’s why there’s a huge clash on the west side of the east side. And just throughout the entire year and even in Denfeld High School, you kind of see it being a mini version of the community clashes there. And I think it just comes down to, for one thing, treating people better.” Piantek said. For more information about Transit Equity Day you can look more here https://zeitgeistarts.com/community/ . For another story you can read, you can look here https://www.wdio.com/front-page/world-national/black-august-uplifted-as-alternative-black-history-month/ . Kyle Aune/WDIO For Related Stories: Duluth Transit Authority Twin Ports William Lien --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed