Janet Kennedy elected to lead Duluth City Council - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Janet Kennedy elected to lead Duluth City Council Alex Buie WDIO --> Janet Kennedy, elected Duluth City Council President (WDIO) After a unanimous vote, Janet Kennedy has been elected to lead the Duluth City Council. This is the first time in the City's history that a woman of African American Heritage holds the position of Council President. "This is an historic time for all Duluthians and this election lifts up the voices of our African American community that has supported me throughout the years," said Council President Janet Kennedy in an announcement from the City. "I am honored my council colleagues have chosen me to serve and lead as the Duluth City Council President and the first African American to serve in this role. Outgoing Council President Arik Forsman called for the nomination of a new Council President at a meeting. Councilor Noah Hobbs offering the nomination of Fifth District Councilor Kennedy. "It was my privilege to turn over the Duluth Council President gavel to Janet Kennedy at our first meeting of 2023," shared outgoing Council President Forsman. "The opportunity to serve on the council leadership team the past two years with our first female Council President of Native American heritage and now our first female Council President of African American heritage was quite an honor. I'm proud our council was productive, low-drama, and people-focused during those two years, and I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in the year ahead." Duluth City Council leadership terms are one year and run January to December. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed