Jim Heffernan column: Remembering the Kennedy assassination - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Remembering the Kennedy assassination It was the most momentous news event I ever experienced in more than 40 years of employment at this newspaper. President John F. Kennedy shakes hands with an unidentified man on Superior Street in front of the Hotel Duluth in this Sept. 24, 1963, file photo. Karl Jaros / Duluth Media Group file photo By Jim Heffernan November 24, 2025 at 6:00 AM Listen Comments Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Last Saturday, the News Tribune published an excellent retrospective on how some Upper Midwest newspapers covered the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on that date in 1963. Emanating from Fargo, North Dakota, where Forum Communications is headquartered, the compendium of that newspaper company’s papers’ coverage showed how the tragedy was reported on the day the assassination occurred in Dallas, Texas. Since Forum firm did not own the Duluth newspaper at the time, the story largely featured its publications of that day. Forum now owns this paper. ADVERTISEMENT Thus, how the Duluth newspapers covered the assassination was largely missing from the story. Here are some memories of how the assassination was covered by the Duluth Herald (evening) and Duluth News Tribune (morning), owned at the time by Ridder Publications. I was a newly hired reporter on that momentous date, having worked in the newsroom on the night shift (3 p.m. to 11 p.m.) for about a month. I was at home when the news broke about 12:30 p.m., with CBS’s Walter Cronkite in shirtsleeves somberly narrating unfolding events, culminating a short time later with confirmation that the president was dead. My first instinct was to call the paper, although I thought better of it when I realized they’d be the first to know through their wire services. The front page of the Friday, Nov. 22, 1963, Duluth Herald reports the assassination of President Kennedy. The Duluth Herald was the evening paper at the time, staffed by the “dayside” crew. Its first deadline was about 11 a.m., and the presses started rolling a short time after that. Thousands of copies had already been published when word of the assassination came through. It was the only time that I can recall that breaking news stopped the presses that abruptly. The Herald newsroom staff — a copy desk responsible for putting the paper together and perhaps a dozen reporters and editors — immediately went about starting over with the Herald with news of the assassination. I didn’t report for work until after the Herald coverage was done and the presses were rolling again with the bold headlines above accounts of the assassination together with “wire photos” of the shooting. When I arrived, work was beginning on the morning paper, the News Tribune, with follow-up coverage of the tragic event, including local accounts of the recent visit to Duluth by Kennedy. He had been here in September to address a “Land and People’s Conference” at UMD. He arrived the evening before — a very rainy evening — and was driven to Hotel Duluth (now Greysolon Plaza) from Duluth International Airport in the dark blue Lincoln limousine that he was murdered in two months later. The car arrived here before the president and was stored in the St. Louis County garage at Fourth Avenue West and Second Street in advance of the president’s arrival. ADVERTISEMENT President Kennedy waves from his limousine while sitting with Minnesota Gov. Karl Rolvaag in the early evening of Sept. 24, 1963, in downtown Duluth. Because of rain, the bubble top was up on the Lincoln convertible. Duluth News Tribune file photo Much of the frantic local coverage of the breaking national event focused for the next morning’s paper on recalling the president’s recent visit. Wire services provided the copy for the unfolding events in Dallas — including the swearing in of Vice President Lyndon Johnson — and Washington. The front page of the Nov. 23, 1963, edition of the News-Tribune shows the immediate aftermath of the Kennedy assassination. Newspapers.com It was the most momentous news event I ever experienced in more than 40 years of employment at this newspaper. My assignment that day was to telephone as many area mayors as I could reach to get their reactions to the assassination. I reached perhaps half a dozen and managed to get a story into the historic paper the next morning. A story in the Nov. 23, 1963, edition of the News-Tribune reports on commentary from area mayors regarding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Newspapers.com Late in the afternoon, chatting with the copy desk editor — called the slot man — who had been responsible for making over the Herald, I mentioned that I had watched initial coverage of the assassination on television, starting about 12:30 p.m. I mentioned that I’d considered calling the paper but thought they’d have already received the urgent news. “I wish you’d called,” the news editor said. The news wires didn’t alert editors until perhaps 15 minutes later, an eternity at such a time. As with the rest of the country, Duluth went into collective mourning with everything public canceled or postponed, including that evening’s Christmas City of the North Parade. read more Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today Music has changed over the many, many decades since Great Depression. Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Duluth road construction projects irk Iowa family Construction on Duluth thoroughfares lead to delays for out-of-towners and residents alike. Sep 5 Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Travel travails of a registered dreamer from Duluth International travel comes with its own set of headaches, including border crossings. Aug 1 Columns Local Satire: Trump can keep dreaming about Isle Royale for defense From the column: "My dream went on with Trump declaring that, 'We’ve got to change the name of Isle Royale'." Jul 23 Comments Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags DULUTH By Jim Heffernan Jim Heffernan is a former Duluth News Tribune news and opinion writer and columnist. He maintains a blog at jimheffernan.org and can be reached by email at jimheffernan@jimheffernan.org. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Lifestyle Spruce trees naturally shed their needles 2d ago &#183; By Don Kinzler Subscribers Only Lifestyle UMD Kirby Student Center serves slices of history from a giant cake 3d ago &#183; By Delia Rose Sauer The Vault The murder that haunted Fargo's summer nights 4d ago &#183; By Tracy Briggs ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.