Nitrate contamination: Mississippi River groups tell feds to act Close 🤍 Donate Newsletters Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu 2026 Election State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Washington Environment Drinking Water Sports Photography Fact Briefs Opinion Open dropdown menu Community Voices Cityscape Sack's View Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Artscape MNopedia Health Open dropdown menu Community Health Mental Health & Addiction Documenters Open dropdown menu Documenters About Twin Cities Documenters Newsletters Open dropdown menu Daily Newsletter MinnPost Week Review Capitol Conversations Newsletter Signup Headwinds: MinnPost's Energy Newsletter MinnPost Greater Minnesota Newsletter Cityscape Newsletter Subscribe to D.C. Memo Artscape Newsletter MinnPost Timberwolves Newsletter Careers Festival About Us Open dropdown menu Inside MinnPost Instagram Bluesky Facebook Close Skip to content Instagram Bluesky Facebook MinnPost Nonprofit, independent journalism. Supported by readers. 🤍 Donate Newsletters Sign In 🤍 Donate Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu 2026 Election State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Washington Environment Drinking Water Sports Photography Fact Briefs Opinion Open dropdown menu Community Voices Cityscape Sack's View Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Artscape MNopedia Health Open dropdown menu Community Health Mental Health & Addiction Documenters Open dropdown menu Documenters About Twin Cities Documenters Newsletters Open dropdown menu Daily Newsletter MinnPost Week Review Capitol Conversations Newsletter Signup Headwinds: MinnPost's Energy Newsletter MinnPost Greater Minnesota Newsletter Cityscape Newsletter Subscribe to D.C. Memo Artscape Newsletter MinnPost Timberwolves Newsletter Careers Festival About Us Open dropdown menu Inside MinnPost Open Search Search for: Search Topics State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Elections Washington Mental Health &#038; Addiction Photography Sports Documenters Fact Briefs Posted in Environment Mississippi River groups tell feds to act on nitrate contamination Nitrate pollution is especially acute in rural areas and has been linked to disease. More than 80 groups nationwide say immediate action is needed. By Madeline Heim, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 05/08/2026 05/07/2026 Share this: Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Tyler Frye fills a glass with water from a faucet that dispenses water processed with reverse osmosis Monday, February 5, 2024 in Casco, Wisconsin. The reverse osmosis greatly reduces the amount of nitrates in their water. Newlyweds Tyler and Shannon Frye recently bought their brand new house and discovered their well is contaminated with high levels of nitrates. The contaminated water is a problem for the entire Kewaunee County village which has no municipal water supply. Mark Hoffman/Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Credit: Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Mississippi River conservation groups are among a broad coalition urging the federal government to take action against nitrate contamination in drinking water, which they say has reached "crisis levels" and is a public health emergency. Nitrate, which forms when nitrogen-rich sources combine with oxygen, has long been found in the country’s surface waters and groundwater, where it can end up in people's drinking water. Consuming water with elevated levels of nitrate is linked to birth defects, thyroid problems and some cancers. Agricultural fertilizer and manure are the most common sources of nitrogen to groundwater, with septic systems and lawn fertilizers also contributing. An April analysis from the Environmental Working Group found that about 18% of the U.S. population from 2021 to 2023 used drinking water from community systems with 3 milligrams per liter (mg/L) or more of nitrate, the threshold at which the Environmental Protection Agency says indicates contamination . Related: Minnesota asks the public if groundwater rule is enough to curb nitrate pollution, following lawsuit Advocates say nitrate contamination has struggled to capture public attention but is costly and hazardous to those it affects. The May 5 letter to the Department of Health and Human Services and the EPA was signed by 80-plus groups, about a third of which are located in or focused on the Mississippi River basin. It calls on the agencies to "immediately identify and eliminate sources of nitrate pollution in drinking water and provide funds to communities to reduce nitrate to safe levels." The letter cites a recent report from the Iowa Environmental Council and the Harkin Institute at Drake University in Des Moines that found high nitrate levels in drinking water, as well as the presence of pesticides and forever chemicals, are linked to rising cancer rates in Iowa . Intensive farming across the state, including corn, soy and hogs, is the dominant source of nitrate pollution, the report notes. "We understand these are long-term problems," said Tyler Lobdell, senior attorney at Food & Water Watch, which spearheaded the letter. "The longer we wait to address root causes, the more difficult, and more expensive [it is], and the more harm is caused in the long run." The Department of Health and Human Services did not respond to a request for comment on the letter. A spokesperson for the EPA said it is beginning the next round of review of national drinking water regulations, which was last published in 2024. Too much nitrogen taints drinking water, hurts river ecosystem Nitrate contamination is a widespread problem across the country, especially in the Corn Belt, but actions to address it have been slow-going. Groups in multiple states, including Wisconsin , Minnesota and Iowa , have previously petitioned the EPA to take emergency action on nitrate problems in specific regions. Lobdell said the agency has either ignored or given an insufficient response to those petitions, dating back several years and multiple presidential administrations. Under former President Joe Biden, the EPA restarted an assessment — which had been suspended during the first Trump administration — of the impacts of nitrate on human health. Environmental advocates had hoped that it could lead to an adjustment of the national standard for nitrate in drinking water, which currently sits at 10 mg/L, because some research shows impacts to human health below that level . Little progress has been made on the assessment. Beyond human health impacts, too much nitrogen in surface water can drive excessive algae growth, causing harm to fish and other aquatic life. It's one culprit, in addition to phosphorus, in the creation of the Gulf of Mexico’s “dead zone,” an area of low oxygen that spans thousands of square miles from the mouth of the Mississippi River. Kelly McGinnis, executive director of the environmental advocacy organization One Mississippi, a signatory on the letter, said humans aren't separate from the environment and that addressing nitrate contamination would have positive impacts on both. Related: Let’s face up to the risks associated with groundwater nitrates in southeastern Minnesota She said she hopes the letter catches the attention of Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has pledged to "Make America Healthy Again" and has shown interest in reducing toxins in people's diets. "We felt the urgency right now to take advantage of the new research [from Iowa] to say, &#8216;Hey, this is something you guys need to be addressing,'" McGinnis said. The spokesperson for the EPA said the agency is "committed to Making America Healthy Again by taking real, tangible steps to evaluate risks of nitrates in drinking water while following the law and gold standard science." This story is a product of the Mississippi River Basin Ag & Water Desk , an independent reporting network based at the University of Missouri in partnership with Report for America , with major funding from the Walton Family Foundation. Basin-state signatories Alabama: Black Warrior Riverkeeper Illinois: Climate Action Evanston; Committee on the Middle Fork Vermilion River; Illinois Stewardship Alliance; League of Women Voters of Illinois Indiana: Wabash Riverkeeper Network Iowa: Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement; Iowa Environmental Council; LWV of Iowa; UNI's Center for Energy & Environmental Education Kentucky: Kentucky Waterways Alliance Minnesota: League of Women Voters of Minnesota (LWVMN); Minnesota Center for Environmental Advocacy Mississippi: MS Communities United for Prosperity (MCUP) New York: Chuatuauqa-Conewango Consortium, Inc. Ohio: Ohio Environmental Council Pennsylvania: Three Rivers Waterkeeper Tennessee: Harpeth Conservancy Texas: Bayou City Waterkeeper Wisconsin: League of Women Voters of WI; Midwest Environmental Advocates; Milwaukee Riverkeeper Regional/Multi-State Focus: Environmental Law & Policy Center (active in IL, IA, MN, and WI); Izaak Walton League of America; League of Women Voters Upper Mississippi River Region ILO; Mississippi River Collaborative; Ohio River Foundation; One Mississippi; Sierra Club; Waterkeeper Alliance Support the news you rely on You rely on MinnPost to report on the things that matter to you. And we depend on readers like you to help fund our work. Will you make a gift to support our work and keep articles like this one paywall-free? Donate now Related Tagged: News Your guide to the policy shaping Minnesota. Keep up with the politics, culture and stories shaping Minnesota with MinnPost's daily newsletter. Sign up Most Read State Government Walz sales tax proposal hits consumers, while sparing business-to-business transactions by Matthew Blake Cityscape Three things to know about St. Paul’s latest development spat, and why neighborhood organizers are right this time by Bill Lindeke Metro It’s still unclear if trash will be picked up in St. Paul starting April 1 by Winter Keefer Environment Trump’s critical minerals order may boost efforts to mine copper, nickel and cobalt in Minnesota by Ana Radelat From Other Nonprofit Media Crowded field emerges to replace former state Sen. Justin Eichorn by Chelsey Perkins, KAXE/KBXE MinnPost is your source for local news. Help keep our independent journalism paywall-free with a donation today! Give Now Thanks to our major sponsors is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit newsroom About Us Newsletters Careers Advertise Membership Help Contact Submit a Tip Code of Ethics Terms of Use Privacy Policy Instagram Bluesky Facebook RSS Feed P.O. Box 18438 | Minneapolis, MN 55418 | 612.455.6950 &copy; 2026 MinnPost Powered by Newspack MinnPost Privacy Policy Instagram Bluesky Facebook New and exciting things are happening in Minnesota. Support MinnPost’s independent journalism during our Fall Member Drive with a donation today! Give now Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We&#039;ll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of MinnPost directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Daily Newsletter MinnPost&#039;s top stories delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday, with a week review on Friday that ties our stories together. Events & member benefits Be the first to know about opportunities around MinnPost membership & events. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link