Paid political letter: Vote Kennedy for County for a Safer Duluth for All - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT Paid political letter: Vote Kennedy for County for a Safer Duluth for All Published September 25, 2024 at 12:07 AM Listen Share Share this article Ideas and opinions in this letter are those of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the stance of this paper. The author of this letter has paid for its placement. As your city councilor, I know how important it is to folks who live in western Duluth to have strong police, fire, and EMS services. When deciding who to vote for in the race to be your next county commissioner, look no further than the recent debate over whether the city council should pass Mayor Reinert’s public safety ordinance package to inform your decision. ADVERTISEMENT One elected official, Janet Kennedy, stood in strong support of a cleaner, safer city for all Duluthians and neighborhoods. Janet and I have worked together on the council to boost funding for services supporting those experiencing homelessness, but we also understand there must be a balance to providing a hand up and holding those who break our laws accountable for their actions. The other, Ashley Grimm, vocally advocated against the ordinance package and in favor of the city continuing to allow camping on public property without any consequence. Commissioner Grimm has also proudly accepted an endorsement from the Democratic Socialists of America, an organization that includes abolishing the police, not just defunding them, as part of its current platform. It is of little surprise to those of us who follow these things that Councilor Kennedy has earned the endorsement of the Duluth Police Union in past elections and the St. Louis County Deputy Sheriff’s Union in this one. There is only one candidate in this race aligned with western Duluth when it comes to public safety, a critical issue for a county with a public safety budget of over $60 million. And that candidate is Janet Kennedy. Please join me in supporting her this November by voting Kennedy for County. Arik Forsman Duluth, Minn. Share Share this article Listen to this article ADVERTISEMENT Community Local Essentia expands services in Superior Sep 15 &#183; By Shelley Nelson Arts and Entertainment Moorhead visual artists represent at the Minnesota State Fair Sep 3 &#183; By John Lamb Subscribers Only Local New historical society director seeks to uplift untold histories Aug 29 &#183; By Macklin Caruso ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.