13th Anniversary Celebration Supporter Thank You Wall - MinnPost Close 🤍 Donate Newsletters Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu 2026 Election State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Washington Environment Drinking Water Sports Photography Fact Briefs Opinion Open dropdown menu Community Voices Cityscape Sack's View Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Artscape MNopedia Health Open dropdown menu Community Health Mental Health & Addiction Documenters Open dropdown menu Documenters About Twin Cities Documenters Newsletters Open dropdown menu Daily Newsletter MinnPost Week Review Capitol Conversations Newsletter Signup Headwinds: MinnPost's Energy Newsletter MinnPost Greater Minnesota Newsletter Cityscape Newsletter Subscribe to D.C. Memo Artscape Newsletter MinnPost Timberwolves Newsletter Careers Festival About Us Open dropdown menu Inside MinnPost Instagram Bluesky Facebook Close Skip to content Instagram Bluesky Facebook MinnPost Nonprofit, independent journalism. Supported by readers. 🤍 Donate Newsletters Sign In 🤍 Donate Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu 2026 Election State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Washington Environment Drinking Water Sports Photography Fact Briefs Opinion Open dropdown menu Community Voices Cityscape Sack's View Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Artscape MNopedia Health Open dropdown menu Community Health Mental Health & Addiction Documenters Open dropdown menu Documenters About Twin Cities Documenters Newsletters Open dropdown menu Daily Newsletter MinnPost Week Review Capitol Conversations Newsletter Signup Headwinds: MinnPost's Energy Newsletter MinnPost Greater Minnesota Newsletter Cityscape Newsletter Subscribe to D.C. Memo Artscape Newsletter MinnPost Timberwolves Newsletter Careers Festival About Us Open dropdown menu Inside MinnPost Open Search Search for: Search Topics State Government Metro Greater Minnesota Elections Washington Mental Health &#038; Addiction Photography Sports Documenters Fact Briefs 13th Anniversary Celebration Supporter Thank You Wall As we mark our 13th year of in-depth coverage of Minnesota, we're living through an unprecedented time that proves just how important thoughtful journalism is to the health and well-being of our community. Moving the event fully online this year, we're immensely grateful to the Patrons, sponsors and donors who have stepped up to support MinnPost’s nonprofit newsroom at a crucial moment. A big thank you to the generous supporters below — Patrons and sponsors in boxes and event donors listed. MinnPost is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Donations in any amount are crucial to the work of our reporters, especially as we help our community navigate COVID-19 and the 2020 election with free coverage for all — no paywall or subscription. DONATE NOW &gt;&gt;&gt; MinnPost is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit. Your philanthropic support is crucial. DONATE NOW &gt;&gt;&gt; Supporting Sponsor Promoting Sponsors Your support — in any amount — is vital to our public-service journalism. DONATE NOW &gt;&gt;&gt; Do you believe thoughtful, in-depth reporting is essential? DONATE NOW &gt;&gt;&gt; MinnPost is free for all — no paywalls and no subscriptions. DONATE NOW &gt;&gt;&gt; Stand with our hardworking reporters at this critical time. DONATE NOW &gt;&gt;&gt; Thanks to the following donors who’ve supported MinnPost through the Anniversary Celebration. Want to see your name on this list of public-service journalism champions? Donate now , and we’ll add you. $2,500+ George Family Foundation, Penny & Bill George $1,000-2,499 Marianne Short & Ray Skowyra $500-999 Janet & David Berry Peter & Carolyn Hendrixson Jack & Ede Rice John Shasky & Krista Lang-Shasky Giving Fund, a Donor Advised Fund of The U.S. Charitable Gift Trust $250-499 Sandra Davis Gay & Mark Herzberg Cecily Hines James P. & Susan Lenfestey Gwen & Mason S. Myers Judy Schwartau Frances & Frank Wilkinson $100-249 Justice Paul H. Anderson (Retired) Anonymous John Apitz Babette Apland Will Craig Paul & Elizabeth Gunderson Cindy J. Kaiser Peggy & Ilo Leppik Linda Lindeke, in honor of Bill's column Deanna Phillips Rebecca & John Shockley $1-99 Anonymous (2) Steven & Peggy DeLapp Paula Fox William Huntzicker Mary Kennedy & Mark Larson John & Mary Lindstrom Godan P. Nambudiripad Laurie Savran, in memory of Bill Savran Are you listed incorrectly or think your name should be here? Contact Tanner Curl at tcurl@minnpost.com , and we’ll get it straightened out. We want to recognize your generous support properly! (Note: The supporters listed above only include those who donated as part of this virtual event. Our full list of generous donors for 2019 is available here .) Special thanks to Martha Garcés for her graphic design work above! MinnPost is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that receives support from donors, members, foundations, advertisers and sponsors. Donors and sponsors that underwrite MinnPost events play no role in determining the content, featured guests or line of questioning. Your guide to the policy shaping Minnesota. Keep up with the politics, culture and stories shaping Minnesota with MinnPost's daily newsletter. Sign up Most Read State Government Walz sales tax proposal hits consumers, while sparing business-to-business transactions by Matthew Blake Cityscape Three things to know about St. Paul’s latest development spat, and why neighborhood organizers are right this time by Bill Lindeke Metro It’s still unclear if trash will be picked up in St. Paul starting April 1 by Winter Keefer Environment Trump’s critical minerals order may boost efforts to mine copper, nickel and cobalt in Minnesota by Ana Radelat From Other Nonprofit Media Crowded field emerges to replace former state Sen. Justin Eichorn by Chelsey Perkins, KAXE/KBXE MinnPost is your source for local news. Help keep our independent journalism paywall-free with a donation today! Give Now Thanks to our major sponsors is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit newsroom About Us Newsletters Careers Advertise Membership Help Contact Submit a Tip Code of Ethics Terms of Use Privacy Policy Instagram Bluesky Facebook RSS Feed P.O. Box 18438 | Minneapolis, MN 55418 | 612.455.6950 &copy; 2026 MinnPost Powered by Newspack MinnPost Privacy Policy Instagram Bluesky Facebook New and exciting things are happening in Minnesota. Support MinnPost’s independent journalism during our Fall Member Drive with a donation today! Give now Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We&#039;ll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of MinnPost directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Daily Newsletter MinnPost&#039;s top stories delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday, with a week review on Friday that ties our stories together. Events & member benefits Be the first to know about opportunities around MinnPost membership & events. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link