Reader's View: Kennedy unfit for top health post - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Opinion Letters Reader's View: Kennedy unfit for top health post Kennedy has advocated suspending critical health initiatives and has promoted questionable health practices, including hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin for COVID-19. By Dennis Johnson, Duluth June 27, 2025 at 6:15 AM Listen Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? In May, Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy went swimming in a creek in a Washington, D.C., park known to be highly polluted. Its pollutants included sewage and pet feces. Kennedy swam there with his grandchildren. During his brief tenure in office, Kennedy has advocated suspending critical health initiatives and has promoted questionable health practices, including hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin for COVID-19 . ADVERTISEMENT Kennedy’s decision-making processes seem extremely questionable, and he seems unfit to lead the nation’s top health post. He must be removed before he damages the health of our country anymore. Dennis Johnson Duluth To submit a letter Email submissions to: letters@duluthnews.com Include a full name, address and daytime phone number. Only names and hometowns will be published. READ MORE LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Reader's View: Help at portage was appreciated 1d ago Reader's View: Trump shows DEI, affirmative action still needed 2d ago Reader's View: By all means, vote your conscience 2d ago Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags READERS VIEW ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR. HEALTH Listen to this article What To Read Next Letters Reader's View: Voting by mail the only option for some 2d ago &#183; By Cecilia Hill, Duluth Letters Reader's View: Let voters decide, not corporations, PACS, or the rich 3d ago &#183; By Jim Gangl, Hermantown Letters Reader's View: Christians, you are called to vote 4d ago &#183; By Kion Hoffman, Cohasset ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.