Fall COVID surge anticipated: Key vaccine details for Minnesotans Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in HEALTH Fall flu and COVID season has arrived in Minnesota. Here’s what you need to know. As federal guidelines shift, Minnesota has taken steps to preserve vaccine access — and encourage insurers to cover the cost. by Binta Kanteh October 7, 2025 October 7, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook A Minneapolis Health Department employee administered a vaccine at a vaccine clinic. Credit: Minneapolis Health Department Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Over the past few years, the increase of COVID-19 cases during the fall and winter months has become a pattern. Officials from the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) say that it may be too early to declare a consistent seasonal nature of COVID-19 as seen with the flu and RSV but strongly encourage Minnesotans to get updated vaccines this fall. “Though we can’t be certain, we anticipate that Minnesota will see a similar seasonal pattern this year. We are seeing numbers increase right now, but it's too early to predict how much of a surge we will see,” said Garry Bowman, a Department of Health spokesman. Last month, Gov. Tim Walz issued an executive order directing MDH to protect vaccine access following shifting federal guidelines which narrowed the ability for people 65 and younger or who don’t have an underlying health condition to get an updated COVID-19 vaccine. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, a panel of advisors selected by Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., voted in September that updated COVID-19 vaccines no longer be recommended for anyone 6 months or older, rather the decision is left to the individual after consulting with a doctor. The change in universal guidance for the COVID-19 vaccine from the panel has raised concerns about the impact on accessibility of the vaccine, insurance coverage and general confusion and hesitancy around when and if to get an updated COVID vaccine. RELATED STORIES COVID, flu, RSV boosters: Which shots should you get this fall? In an unprecedented break, MDH along with public health departments and agencies across the country have endorsed existing recommendations for updated COVID-19 shots from professional medical associations. Minnesota Health Commissioner Brooke Cunningham emphasized that updated vaccine shots help prevent severe illness and death for those of all ages and said the stakes are too high not to follow the science. “This is a unique moment where vaccine information from federal health leaders leaves important information gaps for Minnesotans,” she said in a press release following the CDC vote. “These independent medical associations have all looked at the science and concluded that COVID-19 vaccine is safe, effective and important for people across the lifespan.” Hennepin County’s public health clinic and free walk-in clinics for children will begin receiving the updated COVID-19 vaccine in the coming weeks. The county’s public health director, Sara Hollie, said state actions help send a clear message about vaccine access. Vaccine hesitancy is always a concern for public health agencies, she said. The county works with health workers and community liaisons who help answer questions in real time so “we can start to debunk some of those myths.” How widespread is COVID in Minnesota right now? Minnesota has seen 338 COVID-19 deaths and 4,310 hospitalizations in 2025, according to the state’s COVID data dashboard . Tests of wastewater samples show COVID levels rising beginning in late June, followed by a spike in hospitalizations in late August. “We are seeing an uptick in the rate of hospitalizations, but the rate is relatively low, especially when compared to last fall and winter. The COVID-19 associated mortality rate is also quite low but generally does lag hospitalizations,” Bowman said. Those 75 and older still have the highest rates of hospitalization, a trend seen through the pandemic, he said. Are health officials anticipating a surge this fall? Bowman said the state has seen an increase in COVID cases in the fall and winter months in recent years, and that pattern is likely to continue this year. He said it’s too early to predict how much cases might spike this year. How is this affecting communities with less access to health care? “MDH does not have data to answer this question,” Bowman said. ”However, we know that COVID is a highly contagious respiratory disease that can spread easily from person to person in any community, which is why protective measures such as vaccines, staying home when sick, frequently washing hands, covering coughs and sneezes and other standard public health practices are so important.” Who should get a COVID vaccine? State health officials say an updated COVID-19 vaccine is recommended for all children 6 months and older. The updated vaccine is also recommended for all adults, especially those at risk of severe infection and those who have never had a COVID vaccine. When is the best time to get the updated vaccine? The updated COVID vaccine is currently available at local pharmacies and will likely be available through hospitals and clinics in the coming weeks. Those who have recently had COVID can delay getting the updated vaccine for three months after symptoms or a positive test. The risk of reinfection is lower during this period. How long does the protection last? Protection from an updated vaccine has been found to last about six months. It can also offer protection against serious illness, hospitalization and the risks of long COVID. What are the most common symptoms of the current strains? (Ex: knife-edge sore throat) COVID symptoms can vary, but often include a painful sore throat, fever, chills, body aches, headache, runny or stuffy nose, cough, and fatigue. Because those symptoms can overlap with other common respiratory illnesses, such as flu or RSV, it’s best to check with your health care provider if you have questions, if symptoms get worse, “or if you are at high risk of complications from COVID,” Bowman said. Will my insurance pay for an updated COVID shot? Most private insurance plans are covering 100% of the cost of the updated COVID vaccine, but check with your plan if you have questions. Those on the state’s medical assistance plans are covered. What if I'm uninsured? The state has two programs that provide vaccines at low or no cost for children and adults. The Uninsured and Underinsured Adult Vaccine program provides vaccines to uninsured adults at clinics around the state. The Minnesota Vaccines for Children program offers f ree vaccinations for children . Health officials recommend calling ahead to confirm vaccine availability. Free or low-cost vaccines are available for some children and adults through Hennepin County , Ramsey County , Dakota County and other local health agencies. READ MORE Beyond the ER: Hospital-based legal aid helps improve long-term patient outcomes Healing with an ‘Indigenous lens’: Two Native-run clinics will expand in south Minneapolis In aftermath of Metro Surge, more Somalis reach out for mental health resources Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: CDC , coronavirus , COVID-19 , Minnesota Department of Health , Vaccine Binta Kanteh bkanteh13@gmail.com Binta Kanteh is a contributing writer to Sahan Journal and the Minnesota Spokesman-Recorder, with a background in public policy. Her writing explores the intersections of culture, religion, money, immigration,... More by Binta Kanteh Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close