Faced with housing shortage, Duluth rezones land to limit housing Sign in Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Password recovery Recover your password your email Search 50.1 F Duluth My account Get into your account. Login Register Search Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Subscribe Minnesota Beltrami County Bemidji Carlton County Cloquet Moose Lake Cook County Grand Marais Itasca County Grand Rapids Nashwauk Lake County Beaver Bay Finland Two Harbors Silver Bay St. Louis County Alden Township Aurora Babbitt Britt Buhl Chisholm Cotton Township Duluth Duluth Township Eveleth Fayal Township Floodwood Gilbert Hermantown Hibbing Lakewood Township McDavitt Township McKinley Meadowlands Midway Township Normanna Township Northland Township Proctor Rice Lake Virginia Stearns County St. Cloud Wisconsin Ashland County Madeline Island Douglas County Lakeside Superior Sawyer County Hayward School District Duluth School District Hayward Community School District Lake Superior School District Proctor School District Rock Ridge School District Silver Bay School District Superior School District Outside Region Las Vegas, NV El Paso, TX Log In Search View all St. Louis County DULUTH Faced with housing shortage, city rezones land to limit housing By: Mark A. Baker Date: July 9, 2023 Share: Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp DWP Site from Polk Street City leaders have been sounding the alarm for years: Duluth needs more housing—all types. A 2019 stu... A subscription is required to access this article. Subscribe or click login below: Login Tags Allan Kehr DWP Fairmount SubReq Mark A. Baker Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp a d v e r t i s e m e n t ━ more like this Proctor Proctor expands North 40 Trail, adds bridges and boardwalks October 4, 2026 0 In 2023, the City of Proctor constructed a trail loop on a city-owned 40-acre parcel on the north end of town—the North 40 Trail.... Hermantown New Hermantown Charter Commission prepares to redefine city government September 30, 2026 1 On Sept. 21, 2026, Sixth Judicial District Chief Judge Rachel Sullivan signed an order to establish a seven-member Charter Commission for the City of... St. Louis County Authorities consider enhanced charges for Mahtowa woman following death of DWI victim September 27, 2026 0 On Aug. 3, 2026, when St. Louis County Sheriff’s deputies responded to a motor vehicle accident on Midway Road, near the I-35 on-ramp, they... DULUTH DECC seeks naming rights agreement to keep ice in DECC Arena September 25, 2026 0 Although the Duluth Entertainment Convention Center (DECC) has been planning to eliminate ice sports from the DECC Arena since 2023, DECC Executive Director Dan... Douglas County As competition grows, Superior continues expansion of broadband network September 23, 2026 1 The Superior City Council approved Ordinance 23-4326 on Nov. 7, 2023, authorizing the creation of a municipal broadband utility, Connect Superior. The city broke... a d v e r t i s e m e n t Previous article Press release: Former Minnesota Governor Launches Series of Forums Detailing Threats to Minnesota Water Next article Safe Haven casual employees unionize, negotiate 3 COMMENTS Mike Casey July 9, 2023 At 5:07 pm Looks like a compromise and we know this country can’t seem to get many. I would have supported more units. I don’t understand Janet Kennedy’s explanation of this is not being a reduction of planned units. I’m a western Duluth resident all my life and I have come around on “low income housing” in my neighborhood. What bothers me the most is we can only build those style units in areas that have no power or influence. In other words, places where people that can afford to build but will not build. Why is it that we want to lift people up but we only want them to live where we don’t want to? This site is the perfect site for low-income and mixed-income level housing that would lift folks up to enjoy the area like others do. It’s not like the area is full of high-end housing in the first place. Why didn’t Janet get this! Maybe she does and prefers not to say much on the matter. I will add that eastern Duluth also does not want low-income housing. I fully support low-income housing on the Lester Golf Course area as well. Heck, they finally allowed and welcomed liquor licenses out there after what, 150 years, so why not a diverse set of housing styles as well? Last point, the Breakers project out on 21st Ave E got a height variance stating that 12 foot ceilings are needed because folks can’t live with 9 foot ceilings in this type of development, which turns out to be the most expensive units in Duluth, up to $3,000,000 per. I’m hopeful that someone may look to build higher end housing inits in this area and receive the same preferential treatment from the Planning Department’s staff and administration, variances for a chosen few! The planning commission had a couple speak up on this fact but lost the vote something like 7-2. At least 2 people understood the rules of variances and didn’t pay attention to money and power. Yea, western Duluth is open for business. And variances??? Reply Shae July 9, 2023 At 9:09 pm Allan Kehr is a landlord with a Zillow account that has a 218 phone number listed. Of course he doesn't want new houses built, he has a vested interest in keeping the cost of living as high as possible. Why has everyone missed this context? He's not just a random "Allan Kehr, a resident of the Fairmount neighborhood." he's actually "Allan Kehr, a resident of the Fairmount neighborhood who sees increased profits off of the limited stock of housing in this town." Reply Allan Kehr July 10, 2023 At 10:48 pm I am responding to Shae. You do everyone a disservice when you accuse someone of motives that are not true. Yes, I am a landlord. So what? If it is about increased profits for me, I should be selling my properties. One tenant asks me every now and then if I would sell to him. I don't plan to ever sell my properties. Financially, I should lock in the capital gains by selling. But there are more important things in life than money. And what does Zillow have to do with anything? It seems to me that you are believing what you want to believe. This is all too common today. You are not interested in the truth. My motive, believe it or not, is I love the neighborhood, the quiet, the neighborhood stability, the recreational opportunities and the wildlife. I grew up there. As an adult I choose to live there. I want other kids to play there and have as much fun as I did. Don't you have a special place that you just want left alone? What is your last name and have you been verified the way other newspapers verify submissions? Who are you and what motivates you to lie about my motives? To everyone I want to add to the discussion a Barron's newspaper article of July 3, 2023, Page 54, entitled " Homes Are Expensive. Building More Won't Solve the Problem." Reply LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply Comment: Please enter your comment! Name:* Please enter your name here Email:* You have entered an incorrect email address! Please enter your email address here Website: Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. REGIONAL NEWS & INVESTIGATIONS PO BOX 161702, Duluth MN 55816 Email contact@duluthmonitor.com Phone (218) 391 - 8791 Links Subscribe Minnesota Wisconsin School District Outside Region Log In Follow Us Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Free Newsletter Send - All rights reserved.