Duluth City Councilor Janet Kennedy throwing her hat into the ring for county commissioner - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Duluth City Councilor Janet Kennedy throwing her hat into the ring for county commissioner By WDIO --> Janet Kennedy to run for County Commissioner District 3 spot Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team An election update from Duluth City Councilor Janet Kennedy. She's going to pursue the County Commissioner District 3 spot, which is held by Ashley Grimm. Kennedy sent a statement, which says, "I am proud to serve the Fifth District and the people of Duluth, but I am dismayed by the lack of collaborative leadership currently happening with our district’s County Commissioner and we need strong leadership to help move our community in a new direction.” Janet Kennedy is in her second term on the Duluth City Council and past Council President. “Jail funding at the county level is not being supported by our commissioner and it is putting people in danger,” Kennedy continued. “It is not Ok to not properly fund our local jail, creating unhealthy and unsafe conditions, not only for those incarcerated, but for the staff as well.” On the Duluth City Council, Janet worked with the Duluth Police Department to ensure they had the funding they needed to keep our neighborhoods safe, while ensuring that police officers had the proper training so everyone is treated with the respect they deserve. In addition she helped decrease the tax burden on the taxpayers just like in this last Duluth city budget season, building healthy communities with good safety nets, and attracting new development to Western Duluth that fits within the needs of the neighbors and residents. Kennedy is a mother of two and a grandmother of nine. A lifelong Duluthian, retired from the Physical Therapy field after working for twenty-five years and is a business owner. She is currently the Executive Director and founder of the non-profit Health Equity Northland and serves as a Parish Nurse Community Health Coordinator at St. Mark Church. Ashley Grimm sent a statement as well. “My record is very clear. Because of strong relationships with colleagues and the community, I’ve gotten historic county investment in the west side of Duluth and increased investment in childcare and community projects. There is almost nothing I’m prouder of than having served as Public Safety Chair. In fact, I’ve led on increasing jail healthcare and mental health supports and supported jail and 911 staffing, follow-up services and housing for people getting out of incarceration. We’ve invested more, not less in the services provided at the county jail and I have led on that. I’m proud to run a positive campaign that’s based on facts and results and look forward to healthy debates. “ For Related Stories: Duluth City Council St. Louis County --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed