Carolina Ortiz - MinnPost Skip to content 2026 SESSIONS · 2026 SCHEDULE · SPEAKERS · VIP PACKAGES · VIP SUPPORTERS · SPONSORS · FAQ TICKETS ON SALE NOW Carolina Ortiz Carolina Ortiz is the Associate Executive Director of COPAL and has been a key leader since the organization’s founding. Originally from Zacatecas, Mexico, she is an advocate, strategist, and public speaker whose work focuses on immigrant rights, legislative advocacy, civic participation, and building collective power within Minnesota’s Latine communities. As one of COPAL’s frontline leaders during the 2025–2026 federal immigration enforcement actions known as Metro Surge, Carolina played a critical role in coordinating community response, supporting impacted families, and amplifying the voices of immigrant communities across Minnesota. Her leadership during this unprecedented moment helped strengthen the creation and implementation of the Immigrant Defense Network (IDN), working alongside COPAL staff, Voyageurs, community leaders, and partners to build systems of protection, rapid response, and collective action. In recognition of her courage, leadership, and commitment to defending immigrant communities, Carolina received the John F. Kennedy Award for her work on the front lines during Metro Surge. She continues to lead efforts that advance immigrant justice, expand civic engagement, and build a more inclusive democracy where all communities can participate and thrive. Go back to all speakers MinnPost Festival FAQ Become a member Newsletters Contacts: Sponsorship General inquiries Accessibility New and exciting things are happening in Minnesota. Support MinnPost’s independent journalism during our Fall Member Drive with a donation today! Give now Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We&#039;ll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of MinnPost directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Daily Newsletter MinnPost&#039;s top stories delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday, with a week review on Friday that ties our stories together. Events & member benefits Be the first to know about opportunities around MinnPost membership & events. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link