US health chief Kennedy clashes with lawmakers over vaccine comments - InForum | Fargo, Moorhead and West Fargo news, weather and sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News National US health chief Kennedy clashes with lawmakers over vaccine comments Lawmakers attack Kennedy's vaccine stance amid measles outbreak U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. testifies before a Senate Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee hearing on the Department of Health and Human Services budget on May 14, 2025 on Capitol Hill in Washington. Leah Millis / Reuters By Reuters May 14, 2025 at 5:19 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? WASHINGTON — Robert F. Kennedy Jr. came under fire on Wednesday from lawmakers who said he has made false statements over vaccine testing and safety since taking the nation's top health job. Kennedy made his first appearance in Congress since his confirmation as Health and Human Services Secretary in February, facing questions over everything from his mass layoffs at federal health agencies to his handling of a worsening U.S. measles outbreak. ADVERTISEMENT Some of the most heated exchanges centered on his remarks on vaccines. Kennedy has for years sown doubt about the safety and efficacy of vaccines, but pledged to maintain the country's existing vaccine standards to secure his appointment in the Trump administration. Republican U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy, a physician from Louisiana who helped pave the way for Kennedy's confirmation, corrected the secretary's assertion that the COVID-19 vaccine is the only shot tested against a placebo in clinical trials. "The secretary said no vaccines, except for COVID, have been evaluated against placebo. For the record, that's not true," said Cassidy, who chairs the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. "Coronavirus, measles, and HPV vaccines have been, and some vaccines are tested against previous versions, just for the record," said Cassidy, who chairs the Senate HELP Committee. Democratic Sen. Christopher Murphy of Connecticut said Kennedy had not lived up to his commitment to Cassidy and the committee during his confirmation hearing. "As soon as you were sworn in, you announced new standards for vaccine approvals that you proudly referred to in your own press release as a radical departure from current practice, and experts say that departure will delay approvals," said Murphy. "You also said, specific to the measles vaccine, that you support the measles vaccine, but you have consistently been undermining the measles vaccine," Murphy said. "You told the public that the vaccine wanes very quickly... and said that the measles vaccine was never properly tested for safety. You said there's fetal debris in the measles vaccine." ADVERTISEMENT "All true," Kennedy shouted back as Murphy listed his comments. "I'm not going to just tell people everything is safe and effective if I know that there's issues," he said. The measles vaccine has been shown to be safe and highly effective at preventing infection and does not contain fetal debris. Kennedy has drawn condemnation from health officials for what they say is a weak endorsement of measles shots during an outbreak that has infected more than 1,000, mostly unvaccinated, people and killed three. Audience members at the HELP hearing wore stickers saying "When Bobby lies, children die," and "anti-vax, anti-science, anti-America" in reference to Kennedy's vaccine views. Some protesters shouting opposition to Kennedy's positions, were dragged out by Capitol police, including Ben Cohen, co-founder of Ben and Jerry's ice cream. "You're killing poor kids in Gaza and paying for it by cutting Medicaid for kids here," shouted Cohen, who had attended a pro-Palestine event with Democratic Representative Rashida Tlaib earlier on Wednesday, referring to Medicaid cuts proposed in the Republican spending bill and U.S. support for Israel's war in Gaza. 'Up to me' Kennedy has said his top priorities as health secretary include identifying the environmental contributors to autism and tackling rising rates of chronic disease. ADVERTISEMENT He has vowed to remake the nation's health agencies, including cutting 10,000 jobs at the Food and Drug Administration, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health. Wednesday's Senate hearing and one before a House Appropriations subcommittee earlier in the day were meant to review Kennedy's health-related spending plans under President Donald Trump's budget proposal, including an $18 billion cut to NIH funding and $3.6 billion from the CDC. Democrats and other critics have portrayed the cuts as a gutting of the country's public health infrastructure. Kennedy told the Appropriations Committee they would save taxpayers $1.8 billion per year and make the department more efficient. "Our reductions have focused on aligning HHS staffing levels to reflect the size of HHS prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, which saw around a 15% increase in the number of employees," Kennedy said in his opening statement to the House subcommittee. The cuts and firings were his decision, not edicts from Elon Musk, Kennedy said when asked about the billionaire Trump ally's involvement. Musk is leading the DOGE initiative to cut government funding and reshape the federal bureaucracy. "Elon Musk gave us help in trying and figuring out where there was fraud and abuse in the department," Kennedy testified. "But it was up to me to make the decision, and there are many instances where I pushed back." Kennedy said he was willing to work with Democrats on lowering prescription drug prices in response to a question from Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent who votes with Democrats. ADVERTISEMENT Trump signed an executive order on Monday directing drugmakers to lower their prices to align with what other countries pay that analysts and legal experts said would be difficult to implement. More Nation/World coverage: Pain, trauma and gratitude: 9/11 remembered by those who were there Sep 11 US Rep. Betty McCollum remembers 9/11, 25 years later Sep 8 Actor Tim Curry, original star of 'Rocky Horror,' dies at 80 Aug 26 Text Example ____________________________________ This story was written by one of our partner news agencies. Forum Communications Company uses content from agencies such as Reuters, Kaiser Health News, Tribune News Service and others to provide a wider range of news to our readers. Learn more about the news services FCC uses here. Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next National Dolly Parton, queen of country music, dies at 80 Aug 25 &#183; By Reuters National Lake America? Trump mulls renaming Lake Ontario amid trade war Aug 25 &#183; By Katharine Jackson / Reuters National Luigi Mangione pleads guilty to federal charges in CEO murder case. What happens next? Aug 14 &#183; By Molly Crane-Newman / New York Daily News ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.