Feds announce fraud charges in Minnesota, task force expansion Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in PUBLIC SAFETY Federal officials announce fraud charges involving Minnesota social service programs Federal officials also announced the expansion of the Midwest Medicaid Fraud Task Force to include Minnesota, and the hiring of 15 new prosecutors focused on catching fraudsters. by Mohamed Ibrahim May 21, 2026 May 21, 2026 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Robert F. Kennedy Jr. looks at his colleague talking to the media about Fraud in Minnesota, pictured on May 21, 2026. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Looking for all the latest news on the Feeding Our Future investigation? Subscribe to our free newsletter. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW Federal officials announced charges Thursday against more than a dozen people who allegedly stole about $90 million, mostly from several Minnesota social service programs. Colin McDonald, assistant attorney general for the U.S. Department of Justice’s National Fraud Enforcement Division, told reporters during a news conference that the charges involve defendants who allegedly defrauded seven different state-run, taxpayer-funded programs. One of the programs included an embattled housing program shut down late last year; the program was initially predicted to cost about $2.6 million per year in 2020, but ballooned to more than $100 million by 2024 due to large-scale fraud, he added. “The fraud here in Minnesota is shocking,” said McDonald, who called the defendants’ alleged efforts “systematic.” He added that they used the programs “as their personal piggybank.” The 15 defendants – eight of whom were charged for allegedly defrauding the housing program – are all Minnesota residents and include both men and women. Five other defendants were Medicaid providers, and two others were charged for defrauding state and federal programs aimed at subsidizing child care. The announcement came about an hour after Aimee Bock, the ringleader behind the $242 million Feeding Our Future food fraud scheme, was sentenced Thursday morning to more than 41 years in federal prison. The first charges in that case came in 2022, and involved 78 defendants obtaining money from a federal food aid program aimed at feeding children. Mehmet Oz, who heads the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, says at a May 21, 2026, news conference in Minneapolis that new fraud charges filed in Minnesota prompted the Trump administration to defer $350 million in federal Medicaid funding originally slated for the state. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Federal officials detailed some of the new alleged schemes carried out by the defendants, including two people – Shamso Hassan and Hanaan Yusuf – who operated Smart Therapy Autism Center, LLC. They allegedly used false autism diagnoses and kickbacks to parents to bill the government for $46.6 million. Federal officials, as well as Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, allege that Hassan and Yusuf billed for services they did not provide, depriving children who actually needed the services and funding. Ellison’s Medicaid Fraud Control Unit participated in the investigation into Hassan and Yusuf. U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said Thursday that the scheme “the largest autism fraud bust in American history.” The state predicted the cost of the program, known as the Early Intensive Developmental and Behavioral Intervention program, to cost about $38 million per year in 2020; it jumped to nearly $450 million in 2025. “This was not a paperwork error, it was not a technical violation,” Kennedy Jr. told reporters. “This was organized theft that exploited the most vulnerable children in America.” One defendant who ran a business that was licensed through the Integrated Community Services program, which provides housing and daily assistance to clients with disabilities, billed the government for $1.4 million in services that they allegedly did not provide. RELATED STORIES Aimee Bock sentenced to nearly 42 years in prison for Feeding Our Future fraud What you need to know about the new office Minnesota lawmakers created to fight fraud Bills to fight fraud in Minnesota inch forward at Legislature Two more defendants allegedly defrauded $22 million via the Individualized Home Supports program meant to support disabled individuals. They allegedly used the money to expand their real estate holdings and purchase luxury vehicles. “The common theme throughout these cases is fraudsters exploiting vulnerable programs and vulnerable people to enrich themselves no matter the consequences to the programs or to the people," McDonald said. McDonald also announced the expansion of the Midwest Medicaid Fraud Task Force to include Minnesota, as well as funding for 15 new prosecutors focused on catching fraudsters in Minnesota and other states deemed to have high rates of fraud. Federal officials also remarked on the quicker pace of recent fraud investigations, and vowed to normalize that pace as they increase the number of prosecutors and investigators. Mehmet Oz, who heads the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, cited the new fraud charges for the Trump administration’s deferral of $350 million in federal Medicaid funding initially slated for Minnesota. Oz said his agency is also requiring the revalidation of all providers within 14 Medicaid programs deemed “high risk,” which includes about 5,600 people. During the news conference, FBI co-deputy director Christopher Raia played video of defendant Muhammad Omar jumping from the balcony of his fourth-floor apartment to allegedly escape federal agents during a raid Thursday morning. Omar, who is charged with allegedly stealing $3.2 million via the housing program, was arrested Thursday afternoon, according to local news outlets. “No matter how many shell companies you have, no matter how clever or how brazen your schemes are, if you steal money from taxpayers and people in need, the FBI and our partners will pursue you relentlessly,” Raia said. “We will find you and ensure you feel the power of American justice.” READ MORE Lawsuit over Renee Good’s killing names ICE officer, Stephen Miller and Kristi Noem ICE agent pleads not guilty in federal court for allegedly lying about north Minneapolis shooting ICE agent charged in Minneapolis shooting allegedly plotted escape to Mexico, prosecutors say Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Daniel Rosen , DOJ , FBI , Feeding Our Future , Fraud , Mehmet Oz , RFK Jr. Mohamed Ibrahim mibrahim@sahanjournal.com x Mohamed Ibrahim is the public safety reporter for Sahan Journal. Before joining Sahan, Mohamed worked for the nonprofit news site, MinnPost, covering public safety and the environment. He also worked as... More by Mohamed Ibrahim Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close