Janet Kennedy announces re-election campaign for Duluth City Council - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Janet Kennedy announces re-election campaign for Duluth City Council Grace Koppen WDIO --> Janet Kennedy Janet Kennedy has announced her re-election campaign for the Duluth City Council District Five. “I am proud to serve the Fifth District,” said Janet Kennedy. “I am pleased to work with and have the support for re-election from many community members and neighbors that share my vision of growing Western Duluth.” Janet Kennedy is in her first term on the Duluth City Council, and is currently serving as Council President. “We have so many great assets and amenities in Western Duluth,” Kennedy continued, “such as the GND Rec Skate Park, the Lake Superior & Mississippi Railroad, and the Spirit Valley Building for Youth and Community Wellness project proposal. For the last four years, we have shown that Western Duluth is open for business and ready to help increase the tax base.” In her re-election campaign, Janet Kennedy says she will continue her work in decreasing the tax burden on the taxpayers, building healthy communities with good safety nets, and attracting new development to Western Duluth that fit within the needs of the neighbors and residents. “I am most proud of the new businesses and development we are attracting to Western Duluth, as well as the time sitting down and listening to what the residents and businesses need and want, rather than take a top-down approach,” said Janet Kennedy. “Input from the people who are most impacted is important to me, they need to know someone is looking out for them.” Janet is a mother of two and a grandmother of nine. A lifelong Duluthian, she has worked in the Physical Therapy field for twenty-five years and is a business owner. If re-elected, Janet Kennedy would be the most senior member of the Duluth City Council. For Related Stories: Duluth Duluth City Council election --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed