Dené K. Dryden - Post Bulletin | Rochester Minnesota news, weather, sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Dené K. Dryden Health Reporter Twitter Dené K. Dryden is the Post Bulletin's health reporter. She joined the newsroom in 2022. Dené is professionally associated with the Minnesota Newspaper Association, the Society of Professional Journalists and the Association of Health Care Journalists. She is the second place recipient of the Minnesota Newspaper Association's 2023 Dave Pyle New Journalist Award. Dené received a bachelor's degree in English creative writing from Kansas State University and is a proud alumna of K-State's student newspaper and radio station. A farm kid at heart, Dené loves to get outdoors to hike and look for cool bugs. Readers can reach Dené at 507-281-7488 and ddryden@postbulletin.com . She's also on Threads and Bluesky . Health Most of Minnesota's small group, individual health insurers post double-digit rate increases for 2027 The final rate increases, announced by the Minnesota Department of Commerce on Thursday, will impact around 387,000 small group employees and self-insured Minnesotans. 3d ago &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health Ahead of 2027 health plan deadline, Boldon continues push for home care nursing fix A Rochester senator is urging Gov. Tim Walz and the state's commerce department to enforce a home care nursing law before 2027 plan rates are set. Sep 16 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health Mayo Clinic researchers publish key studies on IBS, liver disease, AI ultrasound tool From aortic stenosis to the five variants of a common liver disease, Mayo Clinic scientists recently published research papers in three major journals. Sep 8 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health Clinical trial participation playing key role in advancing science Clinical trials, whether for new cancer treatments or simple lifestyle interventions, are based on foundational science and lots of planning. Aug 29 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health Hypertension in pregnancy is on the rise. Minnesota experts share risk factors, impact on care More Americans are experiencing high blood pressure during their pregnancies. Two Minnesota OB-GYNs and a nurse midwife share how they help their patients with this diagnosis. Aug 29 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health In Rochester, HHS Secretary Kennedy announces national safety initiative for autistic kids, adults Federal officials made the announcement in Rochester after learning about local law enforcement's success in responding to missing persons cases involving adults and children with autism. Aug 21 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health Minnesota doctor helps take first human X-rays in space Dr. Sheyna Gifford of the Mayo Clinic said her team's research — to see if X-rays can be successfully produced in spaceflight — could have an impact on Earth as well as future space missions. Jul 29 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health Should anesthesiologist assistants practice in Minnesota? A Rochester lawmaker is weighing that option At an upcoming roundtable, two Minnesota senators want to hear feedback on possibly adding another anesthesia career path to Minnesota's roster of credentialed medical roles. Jul 28 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Health In Minnesota's hospitals, adverse health events continue to decline, per MDH's latest report Hospitals and surgical centers are required to report certain events, such as falls and medication errors, to the state. Overall, these events decreased in 2025, but deaths from these events rose. Jul 9 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Minnesota Lawsuit alleges Mayo Clinic retaliated against employee who flagged AI compliance issues Mayo Clinic's former director of research operations is suing the health system, alleging that she was pushed out of her role after she reported issues with multiple AI research projects. Jul 8 &#183; By Dené K. Dryden Load More Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.