5 Friends preparing for Saturday wedding killed in Minneapolis crash Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in PUBLIC SAFETY 5 friends preparing for Saturday wedding killed in Minneapolis crash The driver who struck the victims was speeding on Interstate 35W before the crash. Police say a State Patrol trooper was following the driver, but that it was not a pursuit because the trooper's lights and siren were not activated. by Alfonzo Galvan and Hibah Ansari June 17, 2023 Updated June 21, 2023 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Five friends were killed in a car crash in Minneapolis on June 16, 2023. They are, clockwise from top left: Sahra Gesaade, Sagal Hersi and Siham Odhowa, Salma Abdikadir and Sahra Gesaade, and Sabiriin Ali. Credit: Courtesy of Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW UPDATE: A funeral for the five friends was held Monday at the Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center. The young women were buried afterward at the Garden of Eden Islamic Cemetery in Burnsville. Five young women had just finished getting henna applied Friday for a friend’s wedding on Saturday when they were struck and killed by a driver in Minneapolis, said a local Muslim leader familiar with the victims. Khalid Omar, director of Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center in Bloomington, identified the victims as Sabiriin Ali, Sahra Gesaade, Salma Abdikadir, Sagal Hersi, and *Siham Odhowa. The young women were close-knit friends of college age. “You have mothers who, 15 minutes before this accident took place, were talking to their daughters. And now this morning they had to wake up, and be here without their daughters,” Khalid said. “And so there's a lot of grievance that a lot of people are grieving. A lot of people are very emotional and looking for hope, and everybody's coming back to their faith traditions.” related sTORY Thousands attend funeral for 5 friends killed in Minneapolis crash Minneapolis police said the women were killed when the vehicle they were in was struck by another car that ran a red light a little after 10 p.m. Friday. The crash occurred at Lake Street and 2nd Avenue. The male suspect, whose identity has not been released, fled the scene on foot but was arrested nearby and taken to Hennepin County Medical Center for evaluation, police said. “This is an incredibly tragic and horrific scene," Minneapolis Police Chief Brian O'Hara said at the scene Friday night. The chief described the suspect's actions as "absolutely reckless," and said authorities believe he was "impaired." Police did not elaborate on what the potential impairment could involve. Four women and a girl were killed Friday, June 16, 2023, when the car they were in was struck by a driver who ran a red light at Lake Street and 2nd Avenue in Minneapolis. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Minneapolis police spokesman Adam Kennedy said a State Patrol trooper first saw the suspect driver speeding northbound on Interstate 35W and followed him from the 46th Street exit to the Lake Street exit, where the suspect left the interstate. The trooper could not get close enough to stop the driver. Law enforcement officials are not calling the incident a pursuit because the trooper did not activate their lights or siren, Kennedy said. The distance between 46th Street and Lake Street is about two miles. Five young women were killed when a driver ran a red light and struck their car on Friday, June 16, 2023. A State Patrol trooper first saw the suspect driver speeding northbound on Interstate 35W and followed him from the 46th Street exit to the Lake Street exit, where the suspect left the interstate and struck the women. Credit: Google Maps Khalid described the young women as “pillars” of their community. Police said the victims were four adult females and a juvenile female. “We find ourselves in deep sorrow today, for our community experienced a heartbreaking tragedy last night,” Dar Al Farooq posted on its Facebook page early Saturday morning. “We have lost five of our bright, young sisters in a severe car accident. May Allah grant mercy upon the departed and open the doors of Jannah for them. “These young Muslim sisters, [sic] were shining stars of hope for our future. Unfortunately, their lives were cut short last night by a driver evading the police.” Crash victims remembered Sabiriin Ali recently graduated from Edina High School and was planning to attend the University of Minnesota in the fall, said Khalid. She was also a caretaker at Dar Al Farooq. Sabiriin Ali Credit: Courtesy of Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center “One of the individuals recently graduated from high school about two or three weeks ago, and, we were celebrating her milestone and today, we're here, faced with this reality of her death,” Khalid said. Sahra Gesaade was a 20 year-old student at the University of Minnesota Rochester. Sahra Gesaade Credit: Courtesy of Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center Yusra Yusuf, 22, was Sahra’s resident advisor at the university. On the first day Yusra met her residents, Sahra’s dad asked Yusra to keep an eye out for his daughter. From that day forward, Yusra considered Sahra as a younger sister and gave her advice, from selecting classes to bigger questions about her future. “Now, I feel like she taught me one last lesson—to never forget that life is short,” Yusra said. Yusra described Sahra as someone who was committed to her faith and academics. She said Sahra was one of the first people in her family to attend college. Yusra is part of a group that is asking the university to honor Sahra with a posthumous degree since she only had a few semesters of college left to complete. Salma Abdikadir was a second-year student at Normandale Community College and a teacher at the mosque. Sahra Gesaade (left) and Salma Abdikadir. Credit: Courtesy of Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center “She was planning to teach this morning in her class,” Khalid said. “But now, we're gonna come back to a class where that teacher will no longer be there permanently.” Sagal Hersi was a student at Minneapolis Community and Technical College. Sagal Hersi (left) and Siham Adam. Credit: Courtesy of Dar Al Farooq Islamic Center Siham Odhowa was a student at the University of Minnesota. Khalid told Sahan Journal the community expects to hold a funeral for the young women Sunday or Monday at the latest. Khalid said the five girls were always together, and had bright futures ahead of them. “It's hard to grieve one individual, but now we're grieving for five individuals that passed away,” he said. More than a hundred people of all ages gathered in the gym of Dar Al Farooq Saturday afternoon to listen to speakers talk about death and grief. Young women sat with their arms around each other, hugging their friends as more people filed in. A few left the gym in tears throughout the session. “They were jewels of the crown of this community,” Imam Asad Zaman of the Muslim American Society said of the young women who died. Audience members took turns sharing their feelings during a session on grieving. They expressed anger and confusion, but also shared memories about the young women who were heavily active at the mosque, which is raising money for the women's families. “We have set up a LaunchGood campaign to raise funds to support the grieving families. This tragedy has left a void in many lives,” said a post on the mosque’s Facebook page. “Your generous donation, no matter how small, can help ease the burden on the affected families. Your contributions will be used to cover.” Donations are being accepted at LaunchGood.com/FiveMNSisters . State Patrol response The Minnesota State Patrol, Minneapolis police, Hennepin County EMS, Metro Transit police, and the Minneapolis Fire Department responded to the crash. “This is an immense tragedy,” said Minneapolis police spokesman Adam Kennedy, who responded to the scene. “To have that many agencies responding speaks to the level of the crash.” The State Patrol trooper who first spotted the suspect driver was the first law enforcement officer to arrive at the crash scene, he said. "It was not a pursuit that led to this,” Kennedy said. “The trooper was not able to get within a distance to initiate a traffic stop. It all happened really quickly.” @sahanjournal Five young women had just finished getting henna applied Friday for a friend’s wedding on Saturday when they were struck and killed by a driver in Minneapolis, said a local Muslim leader familiar with the victims. #minneapolis #DarAlFarooqIslamicCenter Read more: https://sahanjournal.com/policing-justice/minneapolis-crash-lake-street-muslim-women-girl-killed/ ♬ original sound &#8211; Sahan Journal Howie Padilla, director of communications for the Minnesota Department of Public Safety, which oversees the State Patrol, deferred most questions about the crash to Minneapolis police. “Minneapolis [police] is the lead investigating agency, so they have the most updated information,” Padilla said. “What I have seen and heard from lead investigating agency appears to be accurate.” Padilla said the suspect was “traveling in excess of 95 miles per hour” in a 55-mile zone. Padilla did not say how fast the state trooper was driving when he began to follow the suspect, adding that that detail is likely part of the ongoing investigation. In a model policy for police pursuits published on the Department of Public Safety website, the state defines a pursuit as, “A multi-stage process by which a peace officer initiates a vehicular stop and a driver resists the signal or order to stop, increases speed, takes evasive action and/or refuses to stop the vehicle. Once the driver refuses to obey the peace officer’s signal or order, this pursuit policy and procedure will determine the officer’s and agency’s actions.” According to the document, a pursuit terminates when the suspect’s vehicle stops, or when the officer turns off the emergency equipment, resumes routine vehicle operation, and informs dispatch. *CORRECTION: This story has been updated with the correct name for Siham Odhowa. Sahan Journal Managing Editor Chao Xiong contributed to this report. READ MORE Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: Dar Al Farooq , Lake Street , Minneapolis crash , Minnesota State Patrol Alfonzo Galvan agalvan@sahanjournal.com x Alfonzo Galvan was a reporter for Sahan Journal, who covered work, labor, small business, and entrepreneurship. Before joining Sahan Journal, he covered breaking news and immigrant communities in South... More by Alfonzo Galvan Hibah Ansari hansari@sahanjournal.com x linkedin Hibah Ansari was a reporter for Sahan Journal covering immigration and politics. She was named the 2022 Young Journalist of the Year by the Minnesota Society of Professional Journalists. She’s a graduate... More by Hibah Ansari Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close