Grimm retains seat on St. Louis County Board - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Grimm retains seat on St. Louis County Board By WDIO --> Ashley Grimm and Janet Kennedy Ashley Grimm will keep her seat on the St. Louis County Board of Commissioners representing the 3rd district. Duluth City Councilor Janet Kennedy challenged her for the seat. The 3rd district commissioner represents the very southern tip of St. Louis County, neighborhoods that run along the St. Louis River. It is a nonpartisan race, which Grimm said made it a bit more challenging to get her message out in a presidential election year. "What we do locally affects our lives maybe more than any other position, especially the county," she said. "And so it was amazing to get to talk about the investments we've done in the western half of Duluth, the improvements that we've made to mental health, and this vision forward for what we can really do in our communities." Grimm won the seat in 2020 with 55 percent of the vote over Joe Macor's about 45 percent. She ran for re-election on what she called "historic levels of county investment to Duluth's Western neighborhoods." Kennedy currently represents District 5, western Duluth, on the Duluth City Council and has since 2020. She was re-elected in 2023, and her council term expires on Jan. 3, 2028. She said she ran for the county board to foster better communication and leadership in the community. For Related Stories: St. Louis County Board Election 2024 Minnesota Politics St. Louis County --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed