In Rochester, HHS Secretary Kennedy announces national safety initiative for autistic kids, adults - Post Bulletin | Rochester Minnesota news, weather, sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Health In Rochester, HHS Secretary Kennedy announces national safety initiative for autistic kids, adults Federal officials made the announcement in Rochester after learning about local law enforcement's success in responding to missing persons cases involving adults and children with autism. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. speaks while Vince Davenport, Associate Deputy Director at the U.S. Department of Justice, center, and Cameron Hamilton, administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, listen during a press conference to announce a new federal partnership focused on improving safety for autistic individuals on Friday, Aug. 21, 2026, at the Southeast Regional Training Center. Maya Giron / Post Bulletin By Dené K. Dryden August 21, 2026 at 3:03 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? ROCHESTER — U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. visited Rochester on Friday, Aug. 21, to announce the development of a new, nationwide initiative to strengthen search-and-rescue responses for missing people with autism. "Our goal is autism-specific alert capability that gets critical information to authorities and the public quickly and helps bring missing persons home safely," Kennedy said. ADVERTISEMENT Following a closed roundtable with Rochester-area stakeholders, Kennedy told press at the Olmsted County Public Safety Training Center that the National Autism Missing and Endangered Person Alert Initiative will build on existing federal infrastructure for those types of alerts. "Now, we need to put that infrastructure to work," Kennedy said. Kennedy said his department has been in conversation with the Olmsted County Sheriff's Office and the Rochester Police Department on their joint program, Project Lifesaver. The sheriff's office's Mark Chambers said officers and deputies, multiple times per year, train to respond to missing persons cases involving someone with autism. Clients of Project Lifesaver wear telemetry bracelets that, if the person goes missing, local law enforcement can track. An officer or deputy visits a client's home every 45 days to change the bracelet's battery. Kennedy said the program's success rate is why he made this announcement in Rochester. "The Rochester Police Department and the Olmsted County Sheriff have a 100% success rate finding those children before anything bad happens to them," Kennedy said. Elopement, or wandering, is a behavior sometimes seen in people with autism. Elopement poses a significant health and safety risk; the individual can get lost, wander onto a roadway or drown in a nearby body of water. ADVERTISEMENT "In 2025 alone, at least 98 children and young adults with autism were recovered deceased after wandering or eloping," said Diana Diaz Harrison, principal deputy commissioner of the Administration on Disabilities and the HHS national autism coordinator. "Those are not just numbers to us. It could be my kid. It could be yours." The initiative, officials with HHS, the Department of Justice and FEMA said, will include a best-practices framework for state, local and Tribal first responders on the particular risks missing autistic individuals face. "When an autistic child or an adult goes missing, every minute matters," Kennedy said. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. speaks during a press conference to announce a new federal partnership focused on improving safety for autistic individuals on Friday, Aug. 21, 2026, at the Southeast Regional Training Center. Maya Giron / Post Bulletin "Not that they're being naughty" Elizabeth Walby, executive director of the Rochester Area Autism Foundation, was one of several community members who spoke with Kennedy during the closed-door meeting. "We've always been really proud of our program; it is rare and unique," Walby said of Project Lifesaver. "When I moved to Rochester, I saw it as a very good example of how different community partners can work together." Walby said not every person with autism has a tendency to wander, but those who do might do so to escape overstimulating things, such as a loud room, or seek out certain sensations or objects. For Jenny Assef, of Rochester, her daughter might have the impulse to run toward the Soldiers Field Aquatic Center while the family visits the nearby veterans memorial. ADVERTISEMENT "She's so excited about the things she wants to go explore," Assef said. "But she doesn't have that impulse control or those messages about danger or an awareness of risk." Sheletta Brundidge is a Cottage Grove, Minnesota, mother of four. Three of her children have autism, and when they were younger, Brundidge said she had to continually monitor them so they didn't slip out of the house unnoticed. "It's not that they're being naughty," Brundidge said, "but that there's something in them that has to get out, has to run, has to wander." Brundidge has made use of interior combination door locks in her home and has held door lock distribution events around the country, including in St. Paul this July. For Brundidge, building understanding for autistic individuals' safety is a partnership between those families and local law enforcement. Beyond elopements, Brundidge said safety also means understanding that non-verbal teens, for example, might not immediately respond to a police officer's request. "We've got to work with the police, and the police have to work with us," Brundidge said. In Rochester, the regular battery swaps for Project Lifesaver clients can act as another layer of safety, said Dr. Flora Howie, a retired pediatrician and the Rochester Area Autism Association's vice president. ADVERTISEMENT "Over that time period, they get to know the officers," Howie said. "When they're on the scene (of a search), rather than avoiding the officers, they go toward the officers, in many cases." Other health policy updates The alert initiative is not yet active. In the meantime, Kennedy said to call 911 immediately when a loved one with autism goes missing, develop a family safety plan and secure pools and other hazards. "Families deserve a government that acts with urgency, competence and accountability," Kennedy said. "Under President (Donald) Trump, that is what we intend to deliver." Alongside the initiative, Kennedy said the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has released new guidance on applied behavioral analysis, or ABA, therapy to "help states strengthen the quality and oversight of these services" and "combat fraud, waste and abuse." ABA is a type of therapy for children with autism, and the federal government has withheld some of Minnesota's Medicaid funding in response to allegations of Medicaid fraud within the state. The federal officials only took three questions, all related to the initiative, from members of the press. Kennedy's Rochester visit comes on the heels of an Aug. 10 presidential executive order on childhood immunizations. The new recommendations from the Trump administration differ from those used by many state health authorities, such as the Minnesota Department of Health, and major medical societies. ADVERTISEMENT "Having questions about vaccines is normal, and your child's healthcare provider is there to help discuss any questions or concerns you may have," Dr. Ruth Lynfield, MDH medical director and state epidemiologist, said in a statement. "Keeping immunization rates high is vital to protecting children and our communities, including our most vulnerable people." Post Bulletin reporter Matthew Stolle contributed reporting. Also read Most of Minnesota's small group, individual health insurers post double-digit rate increases for 2027 3d ago Ahead of 2027 health plan deadline, Boldon continues push for home care nursing fix Sep 16 Hypertension in pregnancy is on the rise. Minnesota experts share risk factors, impact on care Aug 29 Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags HEALTH ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR. OLMSTED COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE ROCHESTER By Dené K. Dryden Dené K. Dryden is the Post Bulletin's health reporter. Readers can reach Dené at 507-281-7488 and ddryden@postbulletin.com . Twitter Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next Local St. Louis County issues political sign placement reminders 50m ago &#183; By Staff reports Local Bygones: Lake Superior Zoo faced major challenges 20 years ago 5h ago &#183; By Barrett Chase Local Photos and video: LSRX 250 locomotive explores the shore 2d ago &#183; By Dan Williamson ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Lifestyle Jim Heffernan column: Pop music in the past different from today 2d ago &#183; By Jim Heffernan Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.