Agent who shielded president and first lady during Kennedy assassination dies at 93 - Post Bulletin | Rochester Minnesota news, weather, sports Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Read Today's Paper Monday, October 5 🗳️2026 Election 🗞️Advertise with us 🔍Explore DNT archives 📸 Photo galleries 🧩Puzzles + Comics Advertise With Us Sponsored Content News Local Minnesota Wisconsin National World The Vault Agweek Forum News Network Weather Sports Prep College Bulldogs Hockey Pro Northland Outdoors Obituaries Health Business Business Announcements Opinion Editorials Columns Letters Cartoons Lifestyle Arts / Entertainment Home / Garden Astro Bob Puzzles + Comics Free Games Community Best of the Best Milestones Calendar Announcements From The Archives Bygones Archives FAQ Podcasts Listings Classifieds Public Notices JobsHQ Local Interest Best of the Best The Woman Today 20 Under 40 Account FCC Network Profile Newsletters Help Subscriber Benefits Sections Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Log in Account Just $2 for 6 months SUBSCRIBE NOW Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT News National Agent who shielded president and first lady during Kennedy assassination dies at 93 Secret Service agent and North Dakota native Clint Hill jumped onto the presidential limousine and used his body to shield first lady Jacqueline Kennedy and mortally wounded President John F. Kennedy Secret Service agent Clint Hill shields President John F. Kennedy and first lady Jackie Kennedy as the Presidential limousine speeds along Elm Street in Dallas after the president was shot on Friday, Nov. 22, 1963. Contributed / Wikimedia archives By Staff reports February 24, 2025 at 2:51 PM Listen Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? GRAND FORKS — Clint Hill, who grew up in North Dakota, became a Secret Service agent and was on duty and nearby when President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, died Friday at his home in California. His death was announced Monday by various news agencies, including The Associated Press. He was 93. ADVERTISEMENT “Clint Hill embodied the qualities of courage, service and sacrifice. His loyalty to his country and his devotion to his solemn duty to protect the president continues to inspire us to this day,” Gov. Kelly Armstrong said Monday in a statement. “North Dakota has lost a legendary native son.” Hill was born in Larimore, North Dakota, and grew up in Washburn, north of Bismarck in the central part of the state. He graduated from Concordia College in Moorhead, Minnesota, and joined the Secret Service after a stint in the U.S. Army. His Secret Service tenure started during the administration of Dwight Eisenhower and lasted through Gerald Ford, spanning five presidents. But it was his time with Kennedy that earned him notoriety. Hill was accompanying Kennedy in a motorcade through Dallas, Texas, on Nov. 22, 1963, when the president was shot and killed by Lee Harvey Oswald. Hill climbed onto the presidential limousine and used his body to shield first lady Jacqueline Kennedy and the mortally wounded president. A photo of Hill climbing toward the Kennedys as the limousine lurched forward remains an indelible image of that day. When Hill came to North Dakota in 2018 to receive the Theodore Roosevelt Rough Rider Award – the state’s —highest honor — that day in 1963 came up frequently. As reported at the time by the Grand Forks Herald, “for all the praise Hill has received, he said he struggled to come to terms with the assassination, and only decades later did he accept that there was nothing more he could have done to save the president’s life.” ADVERTISEMENT The late Wayne Stenehjem, who was North Dakota’s attorney general in 2018, was among those who nominated Hill for the award. During the ceremony, Stenehjem said “though it was not possible for him to save the president, it is likely that Agent Hill saved the life of the first lady.” Joe Scargill, an administrator with the Secret Service, at the time described Hill as a “legend.” Also during the 2018, ceremony, then-Gov. Doug Burgum praised Hill as an ambassador for North Dakota. "Agent Hill has traveled the world representing the United States and at every opportunity has stood proudly for our great state," Burgum said at the time. "His exceptional record of honorable service has earned him our everlasting respect and gratitude as fellow North Dakotans." Former U.S. Secret Service Agent Clint Hill, right, talks with North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum while standing next to his portrait after receiving the Theodore Roosevelt Rough Rider Award Monday, Nov. 19, 2018. Tom Stromme / Bismarck Tribune Comments Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project What is this? Tags Tags NORTH DAKOTA UNITED STATES WASHINGTON D.C. By Staff reports Our newsroom occasionally reports stories under a byline of "staff." Often, the "staff" byline is used when rewriting basic news briefs that originate from official sources, such as a city press release about a road closure, and which require little or no reporting. At times, this byline is used when a news story includes numerous authors or when the story is formed by aggregating previously reported news from various sources. If outside sources are used, it is noted within the story. Listen to this article Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next National Pain, trauma and gratitude: 9/11 remembered by those who were there Sep 11 &#183; By Thomas Tracy, Rocco Parascandola, Rebecca White, Julian Roberts-Grmela, Lincoln Anderson and Leonard Greene / New York Daily News (TNS) Minnesota US Rep. Betty McCollum remembers 9/11, 25 years later Sep 8 &#183; By Mary Murphy National Actor Tim Curry, original star of 'Rocky Horror,' dies at 80 Aug 26 &#183; By Will Dunham / Reuters ADVERTISEMENT Get Local ADVERTISEMENT --> Must Reads Minnesota Federal appeals court pauses Minnesota’s AI nudification technology ban 0m ago &#183; By Mary Murphy Bulldogs Hockey Bulldogs finish season-opening sweep of Long Island 1d ago &#183; By Matt Wellens Prep Duluth East’s Logan Hartman runs ‘hard’ to Swain win 1d ago &#183; By Jamey Malcomb Northland Outdoors Northland Nature: A growth of fall forest foliage 2d ago &#183; By Larry Weber Account Manage My Account Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Policies and Standards Subscriber Benefits News Subscription Options Email Newsletters E-Paper Our News Network Advertising Advertise With Us Pay My Advertising Bill JobsHQ Classifieds Public Notices Contact Get Help Contact Us Careers Twitter Instagram Facebook © 2026 Duluth News Tribune and Forum Communications Company | Office: 222 W. Superior St, Duluth, MN 55802 | Send mail to: P.O. Box 16046, Duluth, MN 55816 | (218) 723-5281 | ISSN 2834-9210 We see that you have javascript disabled. Please enable javascript and refresh the page to continue reading local news. If you feel you have received this message in error, please contact the customer support team at 1-833-248-7801.