Opinion: As measles cases rise, officials are fueling vaccine doubts Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in OPINION Opinion: As measles cases rise, officials are fueling vaccine doubts with new study of debunked autism link A study of Black women in Minnesota found that years of misinformation on the measles vaccine has led to dangerously low vaccination rates — and spilled over to people’s comfort level with other vaccines. by Rachel Widome and Kelly Searle March 18, 2025 Updated March 24, 2025 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Minneapolis Public Health vaccine clinic at Corcoran Park on August 30, 2024. Credit: Dymanh Chhoun | Sahan Journal Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW In February, we marked a sad and unnecessary milestone when an unvaccinated 6-year-old girl in Seminole, Texas , became the first person in a decade to die of measles in the United States. A second measles death, an unvaccinated adult in New Mexico , followed shortly after. Alarmingly the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is reporting that this measles outbreak, which began in January and has been responsible for more than 300 cases at the time of writing, continues to expand rapidly (most recently into Oklahoma and the Mexican state of Chihuahua ), due to suboptimal vaccine coverage levels across communities. Given this context, it was bewildering to learn that the CDC is poised to launch a large and likely expensive study on the link between vaccines and autism, despite a robust body of research that has very clearly demonstrated that vaccines, including the measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines (MMR and MMRV) are not responsible for autism . This is not only a waste of resources that should instead be used for legitimate autism research, but it also serves to sow public doubt in vaccines, the main tool for fighting many deadly and disabling diseases. RELATED STORIES Measles outbreak spreads to Minneapolis elementary school What you need to know about getting the measles vaccine And then, amid this unfolding crisis, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., secretary of President Donald Trump’s Department of Health and Human Services, falsely discredited the measles vaccine while promoting fabricated theories about measles prevention and treatment . Why are these developments such a dangerous detour from progress on controlling measles nationally as well as here in our Minnesotan communities? Persistent and deliberate spread of unfounded rumors regarding the measles vaccine’s safety have already led to precariously low vaccination rates. Here in Minnesota, 15 years ago Somali communities were aggressively targeted by misinformation on the measles vaccine . In the decade that followed, vaccine confidence fell. Previously high measles vaccination rates among Somali children plummeted. A remarkable aspect of getting a vaccine is that it not only protects the individual, but it also helps protect communities. When enough people in a community are vaccinated, the community gains “community (or herd) immunity” and becomes essentially measles-proof ( with measles, 95% of the population needs to be vaccinated for community immunity ). However today, the overall Minnesota measles vaccination level is at its lowest in over a decade . Some schools in the Twin Cities have exceedingly low measles vaccination rates with multiple schools having fewer than 65% of kindergarteners fully vaccinated against measles. Given these vulnerabilities it is not surprising that Minnesota has seen multiple measles outbreaks in recent years. People’s concerns, even if they are mistakenly based on inaccurate information, are real in the sense that they are a part of what determines their decisions about getting vaccinated. It is critically important to the goal of vaccination promotion to understand why people and communities who would benefit greatly from vaccination develop “vaccine hesitancy.” To address this we conducted a study (led by Dr. Inari Mohammed, an Oromo-American epidemiologist) on vaccine behaviors, attitudes, and concerns among Black women in Minnesota. We learned that current and even past misinformation campaigns have left persistent doubts, even among those who are aware that vaccine autism links have been disproven. Repeatedly in the interviews we heard that doubt, which measles vaccine misinformation had initiated, spilled over and jostled people’s comfort level with other vaccines as well. It is a great injustice in the U.S. that people do not have equal access to health across racial, ethnic, cultural and socioeconomic lines. It is especially tragic when a simple, inexpensive, safe intervention, like the measles vaccine, could have saved someone from disease, disability and/or death. We believe it is imperative to address this by doing research, like our study, where people across communities engage on issues related to their vaccine hesitancy and access. This enables the possible implementation of programs that effectively deliver disease prevention to all communities. Yet, earlier this month there was yet another setback, a part of the Trump administration’s coordinated attack against advancing vaccine and health equity, when the National Institutes of Health (NIH) reported it would abruptly halt research around vaccine hesitancy . We do not believe that this suspension of vaccine hesitancy research is what people in the U.S. want. Participants in our study told us repeatedly they would like to see outreach to their communities. They wanted people who delivered messages about vaccines to come from their communities, to listen, and understand their concerns and their community’s history interacting with health care and public health. In our study we documented how concerns and decision-making might differ across Black Minnesotan cultural groups, a reality that had been mostly ignored previously. For instance we learned that there were certain social media posts from influencers that were popular within specific immigrant communities that were very influential in their thinking. Similarly media from women’s countries of origin had reached into these Minnesotan communities and had been highly persuasive. We also heard how untrue rumors related to vaccines and reproductive health could shatter confidence, suggesting that confidence could be bolstered by effectively communicating how being vaccinated with MMR/MMRV prior to pregnancy actually reduces the risk of babies having congenital issues . The research produced valuable insight that can inform future outreach, messaging, and policy approaches. This present situation is not the future we would have expected 25 years ago. Measles control in the United States was one of the greatest public health victories of the 20th century. It had been achieved through widespread measles vaccination. Prior to the introduction of measles vaccination programs in the U.S., an estimated 3 to 4 million people contracted this highly contagious disease annually, resulting in nearly 50,000 hospitalizations and 500 deaths each year . In 2000 there was optimism that measles had been conquered in the U.S., at the time it was declared to be “eliminated.” We have been backsliding. We will not make progress on preventing measles outbreaks and the harms that follow when doubt is being aggressively seeded by research initiated in bad faith, premised upon debunked theories. And blocking avenues for understanding and tackling vaccine hesitancy across cultures will set us back even further. To regain vaccine confidence, which is critical to measles control, we need to provide truthful information and communicate about vaccines honestly. READ MORE Opinion: Politicians, including Tom Emmer, are weaponizing debate over Somali gangs Opinion: As the American experiment turns 250, we are still perfecting its promise Opinion: For immigrants and their children, survivor’s guilt can carry another weight Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: autism , measles , Vaccine , vaccine hesitancy Rachel Widome widome@umn.edu Rachel Widome, Ph.D., MHS, is a professor of epidemiology and community health at the University of Minnesota’s School of Public Health. More by Rachel Widome Kelly Searle ksearle@umn.edu Kelly Searle, Ph.D., ScM is an assistant professor of epidemiology and community health at the University of Minnesota’s School of Public Health. More by Kelly Searle Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Complete your transaction Close