Willmar Public Schools hire educators from abroad to fill positions. Close NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Search for: Search Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Close NEWS LATEST HEADLINES PHOTO ESSAYS ARTS & CULTURE BUSINESS & WORK EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT HEALTH HOUSING IMMIGRATION OPINION POLITICS PUBLIC SAFETY SAHAN EN ESPAÑOL ADVERTISING &#038; SPONSORSHIP SPONSORED CONTENT JOB BOARD COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SAHAN COMMUNITY LIVE NEWSLETTERS ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL ABOUT SAHAN JOURNAL SAHAN JOURNAL STAFF INSIDE SAHAN JOURNAL DONATE WAYS TO GIVE FUNDERS CONTACT Skip to content Sahan Journal A nonprofit newsroom dedicated to reporting for Minnesota’s immigrants and communities of color. Education Environment Health Immigration Politics PUBLIC SAFETY NEWSLETTERS ❤️ DONATE Open Search Search for: Search ❤️ DONATE Menu Posted in NEWS PARTNERS Willmar schools hire teachers from the Philippines, Nicarauga to address shortage. Roosevelt Elementary School in Willmar, Minnesota, hired teachers from the Philippines and Nicaragua to fill open teaching positions. The teachers are adjusting to Minnesota life, but are worried about winter. by Hannah Yang September 12, 2022 September 12, 2022 Share this: Share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook From left to right: Katherine Giliz Cusa, Almera Jane Amindato, Missi May Flores, and Shelamie Santillan are several of the new teachers who are starting the new school year with Willmar Public Schools after being hired through an international teaching program. Credit: Hannah Yang | MPR News Stay informed. Sign up for Sahan Sunday, our weekly newsletter with Minnesota news you need to know. Sign up When the stakes are high, access to information is essential. Support independent journalism when it’s needed most. DONATE NOW This story comes to you from the MPR News , through a partnership with Sahan Journal . At Roosevelt Elementary School in Willmar, Minnesota, Shelamie Santillan hangs affirming messages that read, “We can be kind,” and “We can be helpers.” "You want some? I have extra," she tells three other teachers, who like her have traveled here from the Philippines to instruct students in math, science, social studies and language arts. “It's a big opportunity for us to be here as teachers,” said Santillan, as she readied her classroom for a new year and a new crop of third graders. She has ten years of teaching experience, but this is her first time teaching in the United States. It wasn’t an easy decision to come to Willmar. Santillan was worried that she would feel lost once she arrived. But she says district administrators and community members have given her a warm welcome. Shelamie Santillan organizes books inside of her classroom at Roosevelt Elementary School in Willmar, Minnesota. Having come from the Philippines, Santillan was one of the newest hires for the school district. Credit: Hannah Yang | MPR News “People here are doing their best to help us to be oriented, familiarized,” she said. “They always ask what do you need guys? Do you have groceries? They take us everywhere.” Almera Jane Amindato, will teach fourth grade at nearby Kennedy Elementary. She reviewed the new curriculum she will be teaching and says it doesn't strike her as all that different from what she taught in the Philippines. "It's just that we have to learn more on technology because in the Philippines, we do not own an iPad, we just use our blackboard," said Amindato. Almera Jane Amindato, a new teacher in Willmar Public Schools, poses for a photo. Credit: Hannah Yang | MPR News This is the first time that Willmar Public Schools has tapped teachers from other countries to fill vacant positions. When administrators couldn't find enough teachers locally, the district reached out to the International Teach Alliance program, which helps schools find credentialed teachers from other countries who want to work in the United States. Candidates were interviewed by Zoom and Willmar school officials filled five teacher vacancies. Another teacher from Nicaragua is expected to join the group in Willmar soon, once his visa arrives. "And I certainly look at it that if we didn't have them here, if they didn't accept these jobs, we would have five more openings right now," said Elizabeth Windingstad, the district’s human resources director. The new teachers are in the United States on J-1 visas that allow them to participate in work and study based exchange programs. They can teach here for up to five years. Then they must return home for two years before they can apply to teach in the United States again. Data from the U.S. Department of State shows there were 26 educators in Minnesota last year teaching on a J-1 visa. A group of new teachers from the Philippines are going over some forms with Roosevelt Elementary School Principal Lori Lockhart. Willmar Public Schools hired several new teachers through a program that connects credentialed instructors from around the world to teach in the United States. Credit: Hannah Yang | MPR News "This is a somewhat unique and creative way to address a need,” said Jeff Holm, superintendent for Willmar Public Schools. “I'm hoping we can find other creative means and be thinking ahead." Four decades ago, when Holm started teaching, he said there were lots of candidates competing for open teaching positions. "Things have changed,” he said. “And we need to figure out ways to try and stay ahead of the curve as best we can." Like Willmar, other school districts in Minnesota are also struggling to fill open staff positions. related stories Worried about teacher shortages in Minnesota? School districts have an answer: Come apply for a job. Classroom duties are piling up. Mental health needs are skyrocketing. But pay hasn't budged. Why Minneapolis and St. Paul educational assistants are ready to strike. Minneapolis teacher salaries have fallen behind pay in other big Minnesota districts, nonpartisan researcher says. The lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a drag on the supply of workers, said Deb Henton, executive director of the Minnesota Association of School Administrators. "I have heard from superintendents across the state, whether that be in the metro or greater Minnesota, that there are job openings that they are continuing to work to fill," she said. Districts are trying a variety of tactics to attract more teachers from increasing pay and benefits to reducing class sizes. But those efforts take time to bear fruit and for communities like Willmar, the International Teach Alliance program helped the district fill an urgent staffing need. It also attracted a diverse group of educators to the community, said Windingstad. "They're interested in doing community education classes and sharing some of their cooking experiences. I'm learning so much from them,” she said. “I truly hope if [the program is] a success, that we'll be able to continue this going forward." Missi May Flores, a new third grade teacher at Roosevelt Elementary School in Willmar Public Schools, decorates a blackboard in her classroom for the new school year. Credit: Hannah Yang | MPR News Since arriving in Minnesota a few weeks ago, Missi May Flores, a new third grade teacher at Roosevelt Elementary, says she is already feeling at home. "We love the place. It's peaceful and quiet and we are loving the welcoming people here in Willmar,” she said. Flores looks forward to sharing more about her culture with students and staff. She thinks the experience will be good for her—and her students. "I would like to be part of a program that will support children who will be aware of cultural differences, and that will equip them to be more effective global citizens," said Flores. The group has already taken in the Minnesota State Fair, and they hope to visit an apple orchard this fall and even try ice fishing. But they are a little worried about Minnesota's cold winters. "We're scared. And we're always joking we're going to die," said Flores. From left to right: Shelamie Santillan, Katherine Giliz Cusa, Tammy Barnes, Almera Jane Amindato, and Missi May Flores enjoy a day at the Minnesota State Fair on Sept. 2. MPR News reporter Elizabeth Shockman contributed to this report. ‘What will students actually gain?’ North Minneapolis parents slam proposed school closures Roosevelt High educator files claim alleging Border Patrol agents attacked him on school grounds Minneapolis has 700 students waiting to be placed — even as district debates closing schools Do you feel more informed? This news is free to read, but not to produce. As a nonprofit, we depend on your support to keep our reporting accessible to all. Make a gift today and join the 2,800+ donors who power Sahan Journal. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Tagged: teacher shortage , Wilmar Hannah Yang An award-winning journalist, Hannah Yang joined the MPR News regional team in December 2019 as the southwest Minnesota reporter. Having extensively covered the southeast part of the state, Hannah has experience... More by Hannah Yang Latest Articles Catch, release, catch: Inside ICE's new &#8216;farce' tactic The Item You Don’t Want on Your Back-to-School Shopping List Grover Hogan explores Black, Mexican and nonbinary identity in debut exhibit ‘True Stories’ Three Minnesotans deported to Somalia after a month at Guantánamo Bay About Us Sahan Journal is a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to covering immigrants and communities of color in Minnesota. Support Us Get our latest stories in your inbox every Sunday. Sign up Get in touch Do you have a news tip or story idea to share with us? Did you witness an incident that you think we should write about? We want to hear from you. Send us an email at contact@sahanjournal.com. Be as detailed as possible. Leave us a message at 612-548-4344. Have questions about your recurring donation to Sahan Journal, want to change your donation, or interested in becoming a sustainer? Contact us at membership@sahanjournal.com . For advertising information, contact Sally Waterman, director of advertising and sponsorship, at swaterman@sahanjournal.com . Quick Links Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us Support Us About Sahan Journal Staff Funders Sponsors Contact Us &copy; 2026 Sahan Journal Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Facebook X Instagram YouTube TikTok This is a critical moment for immigrants and communities of color. Our reporters are on the ground, delivering trusted coverage you won’t find anywhere else. Free to read, but not free to produce. 2,800+ individual donors make this possible. Add your support now. One-time Monthly One-time &#036;25 &#036;50 &#036;100 Other Donation amount $ Monthly &#036;5 &#036;15 &#036;25 Other Donation amount per month $ Your contribution is appreciated. DONATE NOW Gift this article Close Link Copy link Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website Complete your transaction Close