New affordable housing in Duluth - WDIO.com X close News Livestream Weather Sports The Lift School Alert Search Home Page Livestream WDIO News Live Watch The Lift ABC News Live Live Weather Cams Storm Track Weather Storm Track Current Conditions Interactive Radar School Alert Allergy Report Live Weather Cams Traffic and Road Conditions Berry Report Feed The Need News Top Stories Local News National & World News Midwest News Politics Health News Entertainment News Communities of Courage This Week in Mining The Lift The Lift Online Weekend Wrap Viewer Photos The Lift Cookbook Midweek Moment That's Old News What's Brewing Ask Dr. Dylan Common Cents Family-Friendly In Otter News Local News Community Events Duluth News Superior News Northern Minnesota North Central Minnesota Northern Wisconsin About WDIO Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture Contact Us Newsletter WDIO News Team Careers Scoreboard Sports WDIO Sports Scoreboard High School Sports Up North Gone Fishing & Hunting Outdoor Northland Bike Report Good Morning Northland GMN Online Our Life in Pictures Tech Bytes GMN Birthday Club GMN Weather Sketch Ready to Work Contests Community Events TV Guide Do you have a news tip? Submit a Video or Picture New affordable housing in Duluth By WDIO --> New affordable housing in Duluth Local news, sports, weather presented by the WDIO News Team Duluth’s inventory of affordable housing expanded on Friday with the grand opening of two new supportive housing developments: Wadena West and Welch Place Apartments. Located next to each other on 52nd Avenue West, the new buildings offer a total of 90 units designated for single adults experiencing homelessness. As supportive housing, the apartments pair affordable rent with on‑site services designed to help residents stabilize and rebuild their lives. A number of local and state leaders attended the ribbon cutting, including Minnesota Senator Jen McEwen, who emphasized how critical supportive services are to long‑term stability. “To have those supports in place- the furniture, food available, a case worker available to help navigate the systems to get help- it will be a game changer for everyone who can come into this building,” McEwen said. West Duluth city councilor Janet Kennedy delivered a proclamation from Mayor Roger Reinert, declaring it Nancy Cashman Day in the City of Duluth. Cashman is the Executive Director of Center City Housing Corp. The nonprofit maintains a portfolio of affordable housing complexes. Minnesota Housing Commissioner Jennifer Ho called the moment a significant achievement made possible by years of partnership, “People who have not known stable housing for the majority of their life- we know that when you do it with love and compassion and care, and the funding to do that. We can welcome people home,” Ho said. The $31 million project was funded through a blend of local, state, and federal support. Major contributors included: Minnesota Housing, St. Louis County, City of Duluth, and Private investment partners. Federal dollars also played a significant role, with contributions from the National Housing Trust Fund, the American Rescue Plan Act, and the Low-Income Housing Tax Credits. Together, the new developments aim to address longstanding housing challenges in the region and provide stable homes for some of Duluth’s most vulnerable residents. You can find more information about the apartments on City Center Housing's Website. For Related Stories: Duluth --> --> WDIO-DT FCC Public Inspection File WIRT-DT FCC Public Inspection File Contact Us | Public Information FCC Applications WDIO Terms of Use DMCA Notice Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Unsubscribe from Newsletter Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public file should contact Vicki Kaping at vkaping@wdio.com or (218) 727-6864 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. &copy; WDIO-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company WDIO Follow &times; Get our headlines by email Sign up for our newsletter and never miss the local stories that matter most. Email address Subscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed &times; Unsubscribe from our newsletter Enter the email address you would like removed from our newsletter list. Email address Unsubscribe Leave this field empty Yes, unsubscribe me No, keep me subscribed